# c 编程 MCQ(选择题)

> 原文:[https://www.tutorialandexample.com/c-programming-mcq](https://www.tutorialandexample.com/c-programming-mcq)

## MCQ 谈 C 语言

### 1)谁被称为 C 语言之父？

1.  詹姆斯·卢瑟福
2.  丹尼斯·里奇
3.  马克·扎克伯格
4.  詹姆斯·高斯林

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(1)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(1)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (B) Dennis Ritchie **Explanation:** Dennis Ritchie is known as the father of the C language.

* * *

### 2)C 语言是在-？

1.  One thousand nine hundred and seventy
2.  One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one
3.  One thousand nine hundred and seventy-two
4.  One thousand nine hundred and seventy-three

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(2)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(2)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (c) 1972 **Explanation:** The C language was developed in 1972.

* * *

### 3)C 语言发展起来的地方是-？

1.  在太阳微系统公司
2.  美国电话电报公司贝尔实验室
3.  剑桥大学
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(3)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(3)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (b) AT & T's Bell laboratories **Explanation:** The C language was developed in 1972 at AT & T's Bell laboratories in the U.S.A.

* * *

### 4) C 语言是一种-。

1.  低级语言
2.  中级语言
3.  高级语言
4.  机器语言

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(4)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(4)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (c) High-level language **Explanation:** C language is a high-level language.

* * *

### 5)C 语言中有多少个关键字？

1.  Twenty-seven
2.  Twenty-nine
3.  Thirty
4.  Thirty-two

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(5)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(5)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (d) 32 **Explanation:** There are 32 keywords available in the C language.

* * *

### 6) C 语言使用-将代码转换成机器语言。

1.  编译程序
2.  解释者
3.  编译器和解释器
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(6)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(6)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (a) compiler **Explanation:** In the c language, the compiler is used as a translator. The compiler converts high-level language into machine language.

* * *

### 7)C 程序中的变量不能以-？

1.  除下划线以外的特殊字符
2.  数字
3.  甲乙双方
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(7)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(7)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (c) both, a & b. **Explanation:** In the c program, you can't define a variable name starting with a number or any special character except underscore. A variable name always starts with lower case or upper case alphabets or with an underscore (_).

* * *

### 8)C 程序中的一个标识符不能以-？

1.  一个数字
2.  下划线
3.  小写字母
4.  大写字母

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(8)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(8)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (a) A digit **Explanation:** Same as variables, an identifier also can't start with a digit (number) or with any special characters except for underscore.

* * *

### 9)c 语言中整数的范围是:

1.  -32767 转 32768
2.  -32768 到 32767
3.  0 到 255
4.  -3.4e38 至 3.8e38

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(9)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(9)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (b) -32768 to 32767 **Explanation:** The range of all variables is pre-defined in the C language. Here is the range of signed and the unsigned integer is given below: Signed integer: -32768 to 32767 Unsigned integer: 0 to 55355 Unsigned character: 0 to 255

* * *

### 10) Lint 在 C 语言中是一个/an -。

1.  c 编译器
2.  解释者
3.  分析工具
4.  调试器

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(10)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(10)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (C) analyzing tool **Explanation:** Lint is an analyzing tool, which helps the programmer to find out the errors, suspicious action, bugs in the C program. It mainly helps in checking the syntax of the program.

* * *

### 11)给定语句的输出是什么

```
printf("%d", (a++))

```

1.  a 的值
2.  值 a+1
3.  错误
4.  没有人

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(11)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(11)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (a) value of a **Explanation:** a++ is a post-increment operator. In the post-increment, firstly, the action is performed on the current value of the variable then increases the value by +1. In this program, firstly, the compiler prints the value of 'a' then increase its value by +1.

* * *

### 12)C 程序中声明了一个常量变量:

1.  在 main()函数之前
2.  在 main()函数之后
3.  在程序新行的任何地方
4.  仅与其他声明的变量一起使用

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(12)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(12)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (c) Anywhere in a new line of the program **Explanation:** The C language allows you to declare a constant variable anywhere in the program, but it should be in the new line or statement.

* * *

### 13)在程序执行期间，哪个循环至少运行一次？

1.  For 循环
2.  While 循环
3.  Do-while 循环
4.  上述全部

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(13)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(13)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (c) do-while loop **Explanation:** In the do-while loop, the compiler executes the do block firstly then checks the condition; if the condition becomes true, then the loop will execute again, otherwise terminated. So even the condition is wrong, the do-while loop will execute one time in the program.

* * *

### 14)输出中什么返回模数运算符？

1.  股息
2.  剩余物
3.  根据用户的要求
4.  先分红，再余数。

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(14)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(14)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (b) Remainder **Explanation:** The modulus operator that is denoted by a percentage sign (%) always returns the remainder value in the program.

* * *

### 15)哪个函数用于计算字符串中的字符数:

1.  len()
2.  斯特伦()
3.  克伦()
4.  计数()

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(15)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(15)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (b) strlen() **Explanation:** Strlen() is a function, which is used to determine the length of the string in the C program. This function counts the characters present in the string and gives the result in an integer value, which represents the length of the string in the program.

* * *

### 16)你可以在 C 程序中使用-关键字来声明一个字符串变量。

1.  潜艇用热中子反应堆（submarine thermal reactor 的缩写）
2.  线
3.  茶
4.  数组中有一定大小的字符

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(16)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(16)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (d) char having some size in the array **Explanation:** The C language does not allow you to use str or string to declare a string variable. It uses the char keyword with some pre-defined size in a square brace to declare a string variable in the program. For example; char ch [10]; Here 'ch' is a variable declared as a string, which will contain a maximum of ten characters in the program.

* * *

### 17)每个 C 程序总是需要？

1.  一项功能
2.  一个输入
3.  一个输出
4.  没有一个

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(17)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(17)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (a) A function **Explanation:** Every C program must include a function to be executed successfully. Every c program contains the main function because the compiler starts the compilation process from the main function. The main function is that from where the real program starts.

* * *

### 18)在 C 程序中，哪种类型的迭代器用于迭代向量？

1.  正向迭代器
2.  随机存取迭代器
3.  双向迭代器
4.  上述全部

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(18)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(18)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (d) All of the above **Explanation:** Iteration is like a pointer variable in the C program, which indicates the value of the variable. The iteration value shows the index value of the variable in the program, and it does affect the value of the variable. So you can use all three types of iterators (which are available in the above options) for the iteration of the vectors in the C program.

* * *

### 19)当一个程序成功终止时，那么该程序返回给操作系统的值是-？

1.  Zero
2.  one
3.  -1
4.  程序不会向操作系统返回任何值。

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(19)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(19)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (a) 0 **Explanation:** When a program is terminated, then it sends a binary value as a report to the operating system. This value may be 0 (zero) or 1 (one). When the program is terminated successfully, then it sends 0, and when the program is terminated with some errors, then it sends 1 to the operating system.

* * *

### 20)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
main() {
	printf("\\nab");
	printf("\\bcd");
	printf("\\ref");
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is -----?

1.  abcdef
2.  efacd
3.  acdef
4.  efd

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(20)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(20)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (d) efd **Explanation:** In the C language, \n is used for a new line, \b is used for backspace, and \r is used for linefeed in the program. The first statement of the program will print "ab' in the new line. The second statement of the program firstly performs backspace operation then prints the string. So the compiler firstly removes one character, i.e., "b, then prints the string, i.e., "cd.' Thus the output till now is "acd.' The third statement of the program firstly performs linefeed then prints the string. So the compiler moves the cursor to the starting point of the current line. Now it prints the string, i.e., "ef.' So the compiler will override the output. Thus the final output is "efd.'

* * *

### 21)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
main() {
	float n;
	double m;
	n = 1.1;
	m = 1.1;
	if (n == m) {
		printf("I love coding.");
	}
	else {
		printf("I love testing.");
	}
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is -----?

1.  我喜欢编码。
2.  我喜欢测试
3.  句法误差
4.  逻辑误差

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(21)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(21)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (b) I love testing **Explanation:** The floating-point number is categorized into three parts in the C language, which are

*   浮点值
*   两倍
*   长双份

The precision of the value of these variables may vary from each other. You can't predict the accurate value of these types of variables. It depends on the number of bytes. That's why values of n and m did not match each other, and else block is executed in this program that prints the statements.

* * *

### 22)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
void main() {
	int n;
	char ch;
	ch = 'N';
	n = ch - 'A';
	printf("%d", n);
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is -----?

1.  Ten
2.  Twelve
3.  Thirteen
4.  错误

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(22)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(22)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (c) 13 **Explanation:** When you perform an arithmetic operation on alphabets, then the compile does the action on their ASCII values in the C program. Here, the ASCII value of the character "N' is 78. ASCII value of character "A' is 65. So the subtraction of these characters, i.e., N - A, is 13. Thus the value printed by the compiler is 13.

* * *

### 23)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
void main() {
	int n = 12;
	n = !n > 23;
	printf("n = %d", n);
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  错误
2.  n =12
3.  n = 1
4.  n = 0

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(23)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(23)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (d) n = 0 **Explanation:** Whenever there are two or more than two operators in a single statement of the C program, then the compiler uses the precedence of the operators. It executes that operator firstly, whose precedence is higher than others. Here in this program, NPT operator (!) has higher precedence than greater than (>) operator. So !12 is executed first. Result of !12 is 0 (!true becomes false, i.e., 0) and 0 > 23 is also false, so value remains 0\. Thus the compiler prints n = 0.

* * *

### 24)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
void main() {
	int n;
	n = - -12;
	printf("n = %d", n);
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  错误
2.  n =12
3.  n = 11
4.  n = -12

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(24)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(24)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (b) n = 12 **Explanation:** Here simple math rule is applied in this program. The combination of minus and minus becomes plus. So negative of negative 12 becomes positive 12\. Thus the compiler prints n =12. Here one thing to be noted is that you can't use increment (++) or decrement (--) operators with the value. These operators are used only with the variables in the program.

* * *

### 25)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
void main() {
	int n = 7;
	printf("%d %d %d %d %d", n++, n--, --n, ++n, n);
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  Seventy-six thousand seven hundred and eighty-six
2.  Sixty-seven thousand eight hundred and seventy-six
3.  Seventy-eight thousand seven hundred and sixty-seven
4.  没有一个

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(25)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(25)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (d) None of them **Explanation:** The correct value is 78677. It is a simple program of increment and decrement operators. In pre-increment and pre-decrement, the value of the variable firstly increases or decreases, then do other operation. While in post-increment and post-decrement, the value of the variable increases or decreases after doing the operation on it. Here, in n++, the compiler print 7 then increases it to 8. In n—the compiler prints 8 then decreases it to 7. In -n firstly, the compiler decreases then prints the value, i.e., 6. In ++n, the compiler increases, then print the value, i.e., 7. In the last, the compiler prints the value of n. So the final result is 78677.

* * *

### 26)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
# define square(n) n*n
void main() {
	int a = 5;
	a = a / square(a)
	printf("a = %d", a);
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  a =5
2.  a = 0
3.  a =0.2
4.  没有一个

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(26)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(26)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (a) a = 5 **Explanation:** In this program, we define a pre-processor, .i.e., square(n) = n*n So the compiler converts square(n) into n*n. Thus the final equation becomes like this; a = a / a * a Because the division operator and multiply operator have the same priority in the C language, so the compiler performs from left to right direction. So division operation is performed firstly and then multiplication. In division, 5 /5 = 1 and 1 * 5 = 5 Thus the final value of "a' becomes 5.

* * *

### 27)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
#define clrscr() 123
void main() {
	clrscr();
	printf("%d", clrscr());
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  编译时错误
2.  One hundred and twenty-three
3.  没有错误，但没有输出。
4.  程序将挂起。

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(27)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(27)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (b) 123 **Explanation:** Whenever you define a pre-processor in the C program, it passes the contained value separately before the execution process. So the value 123 replaces clrscr() in this program before doing the execution process by the compiler. The statement "123;' is an executable statement, but it does not perform any action. So it does not cause any problem, and the compiler prints the value, i.e., 123. Thus the final result is 123.

* * *

### 28)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
void main() {
int i;
	printf("%d", scanf("%d", &i));
	// here, provide value 10 to the variable 'i' as an input.
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  Ten
2.  Zero
3.  one
4.  编译时错误
5.  没有错误，但没有输出。

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(28)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(28)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (c) 1 **Explanation:** scanf function is used to take an input form end-user. It returns a Boolean value as a report to the compiler during the execution of the program. If an input is taken successfully, then it returns 1, otherwise 0. Here in this program, the "i' value is 10, and there will be no problem in scanning it. So the compiler will print 1 in the output.

* * *

### 29)如果 n = 4.45，那么如何将这个值四舍五入为 5？

1.  通过使用 ceil(4.45)
2.  通过使用地板(4.45)
3.  通过使用综述(4.45)
4.  通过使用 roundto(4.45)

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(29)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(29)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (a) By using ceil(4.45) **Explanation:** There are three functions available to get the round figure of a value in the C program, which are:

*   Ceil 函数:该函数返回最接近的大于或等于整数值的结果，该结果通过该函数传递。
*   Floor 函数:该函数返回最近的小于或等于整数值的结果，该结果通过该函数传递。
*   Round 函数:如果传递的参数是从 0.1 到 0.5，则该函数返回最近的小于整数值作为结果。如果传递的参数是从 0.6 到 0.9，则它返回最近的小于整数值。

Here, in this program ceil(4.45) = 5 floor(4.45) = 4 So, the first option is the right answer.

* * *

### 30)为了得到两个浮点值相除的余数，我们在 C 程序中使用？

1.  %，即 rem = 25.23 % 3.24
2.  modf，即 rem = modf(25.23，3.24)
3.  fmod, i.e., rem = fmod(25.23, 3.24)
4.  不可能获得浮点值除法中的余数

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(30)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(30)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (c) fmod **Explanation:** It is also possible to find out the remainder value from the division of float values in the C program. The C language uses the fmod function to calculate the remainder value of floating-point variables. It works exactly the same as a modulus operator does for integer variables. Here, the result of fmod(25.23, 3.24) is.

* * *

### 31)在 c 程序中实数被当作-?

1.  浮点变量
2.  双变量
3.  长变量
4.  一个都没有。

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(31)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(31)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (b) A double variable **Explanation:** When you declare a real number in the C program, then by default, it is treated as a double variable. A double variable is also a floating-point number, but it has a longer precision value in comparison to float value.

* * *

### 32)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int main() {
extern int n;
	printf("%d", n);
	return 0;
}
int n = 45;

```

Where variable 'n' is declared and defined in this program?

1.  “extern int n”是声明语句，“int n = 45”是定义语句。
2.  “extern int n”是定义语句，“int n = 45”是声明语句。
3.  这个程序中没有可用的定义语句，语句“int n = 45”是一个声明语句。
4.  语句“int n = 45”在程序中同时作为声明和定义语句执行。

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(32)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(32)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (a) "extern int n" is a declaration statement, and "int n = 45" is the definition statement. **Explanation:** When we declare a variable in the C program, we tell about the data type of that variable in the declaration, and when we define a variable, then we initialize a value into that variable. In this program, we declare variable n with the extern data type, so it becomes a declaration statement, and another one is a definition statement of the variable.

* * *

### 33)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int main() {
extern int n;
n = 45;
	printf("%d", n);
	return 0;
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  Forty-five
2.  没有人
3.  错误
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(33)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(33)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (c) Error **Explanation:** The compiler raises a linking error in this program. It tells variable "i' is an undefined symbol in this program. "extern int n' statement says that the value of "n' is not defined in this program. The value of "n' is defined in some other module, and that module is linked with this program. But here, the linker does not find any link of another program with variable "n'. So the compiler generates a linking error.

* * *

### 34)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int main() {
extern int n;
	printf("%d", n);
	return 0;
}
int n = 23;

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  Twenty-three
2.  没有人
3.  链接错误
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(34)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(34)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (a) 23 **Explanation:** The statement "extern int i' shows that the value of "n' is taken from some external module of the project. It is not present in the current program. Here the value of variable "n' is defined outside of the program, and it works as a local variable for this program. The compiler will print the value 23 because, in the conflict of a local and global variable, the priority goes to the local variable.

* * *

### 35)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int main() {
int n = 8;
	for(; scanf("%s, & n); printf("%d", n));
	return 0;
}

```

How many times for loop will be iterated in this program?

1.  8 次
2.  1 次
3.  无限次
4.  程序将无错误地执行，但循环不会迭代
5.  错误

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(35)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(35)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (c) Infinite times **Explanation:** In this for loop statement, the scanf function asks for input and the printf function prints the input value. This for loop is going to run infinite times because the compiler asks for input from the end-user, and every time end-user will provide the input. So the scanf function always returns 1, and it becomes true. Thus the condition becomes true every time, and the loop goes into an infinite state.

* * *

### 36)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
#include int main() {
abc();
return 0;
}
void abc() {
	printf("Hey..!! My name is Jessica");
} 
```

Find out the error, if any, available in this program?

1.  没有错误。
2.  函数 abc()不会被调用。
3.  函数 abc()被调用，但未被定义。
4.  以上都不是。

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(36)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(36)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (c) Function abc() is called, but it is not defined **Explanation:** It is necessary to define a function (i.e., created by the user itself) before the main function. The function definition tells the compiler that the given function also exists in the program; otherwise, the compiler raises an error at the time of compilation. To figure out this problem, you need to add a function prototype of the abc() function before the main() function, i.e., void abc(); OR (2<sup>nd</sup> way) define the abc() function before the main.

* * *

### 37)C 程序中的结构和并集有什么区别？

1.  结构存储不同类型的变量，而 union 存储相同类型的变量。
2.  结构使用不同的内存位置，而联合对它们的元素使用相同的内存位置。
3.  结构可以通过值传递给函数，而联合不能通过值传递给函数。
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(37)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(37)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (b) The structure uses different memory locations, while the union uses the same memory location for their elements. **Explanation:** Structure and union are mostly the same in the C language. A union stores each type of variable, and all variables have the same memory location, but only one member can be accessed at a time. It provides better use of memory in the program, while in the structure, every member has a separate memory location in the program.

* * *

### 38)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int main() {
static int n;
n = 5;
	printf("%d", n--);
	if (n)
		main();
	return 0;
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  Fifty-four thousand three hundred and twenty-one
2.  打印 5 次
3.  没有人
4.  编译时错误

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(38)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(38)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (a) 54321 **Explanation:** When you declare a variable with the static keyword, then the changes made in the value of the static variable is retained in the program. It also happens between the function calls. In this program, the main() function is also treated as a normal function, so it will call until the value of n becomes 0. Thus the compiler prints 54321.

* * *

### 39)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int main() {
char not;
not = !45;
	printf("%d", not);
	return 0;
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  Forty-five
2.  Fifty-four
3.  Zero
4.  垃圾价值
5.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(39)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(39)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (c) 0 **Explanation:** The not operator (!) is a logical operator, which returns a Boolean value, i.e., 0 or 1 in the program. In the C language, 0 is considered as FALSE, and every non-zero value is considered as TRUE. So !45 is considered as FALSE by the compiler, and it prints 0 in the result of this program.

* * *

### 40)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int main() {
register n;
char ch[] = "Age";
n = 23;
	printf("%s %d", ch, n);
	return 0;
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  23 岁
2.  年龄垃圾值
3.  错误
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(40)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(40)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (a) Age 23 **Explanation:** In the C language, the register variable is also treated as a normal variable, so it does not affect the program. The "register' keyword describes that the given variable will use a very small memory size in the program. So, the compiler treat it as a normal program and prints Age 23 as output.

* * *

### 41)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int main() {
int n1, n2;
n1 = 20;
n2 = 25;
	printf("%d", n1+++n2);
	return 0;
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  forty-four
2.  Forty-five
3.  Forty-six
4.  编译时错误

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(41)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(41)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (b) 45 **Explanation:** The compiler treated the operation "n1+++n2' as "(n1++) + n2' in this program. The first two operators are used for post-increment; remain single plus operator, which is used for addition. It happens because of the precedence of operators in the program. Thus the compiler firstly does the addition then does the increment (because it is post-increment). It prints the addition result, i.e., 45.

* * *

### 42)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int demo(int i) {
	return i++;
}
int main() {
int n;
n = demo(45);
	printf("%d", --n);
	return 0;
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  forty-four
2.  Forty-five
3.  Forty-six
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(42)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(42)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (a) 44 **Explanation:** The "return i++' statement returns the value of "i' in the program. So the value of "i' remains the same in the main function. The print statement prints the value of "n' after pre-decrement. So the compiler prints 44 in the result of this program.

* * *

### 43)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int main() {
int x = x++, y = y++, z = z++;
	printf("%d %d %d", x, y, z);
	return 0;
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  垃圾价值
2.  错误
3.  0 0 0
4.  One hundred and eleven

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(43)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(43)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (a) Garbage value **Explanation:** The use of post-increment in the variable declaration statement is valid here because an identifier is available in this statement, which can use the program codes at the point of the declaration. The variables x, y,z are automatic variables, so they will contain some garbage values if you do not define any value for them. Thus the compiler prints garbage value as the result of this program.

* * *

### 44)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int main() {
static int x = x++, y = y++, z = z++;
	printf("%d %d %d", x, y, z);
	return 0;
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  垃圾价值
2.  错误
3.  0 0 0
4.  One hundred and eleven

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(44)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(44)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (d) 1 1 1 **Explanation:** The variables are declared with the static keyword in the C program; by default, they are initialized with zero. So the normal value of the variable x, y, and z is zero in this program. In the declaration statement, a post-decrement operation is also performed, so the value of these variables are incremented by +1. Thus the compiler prints 1 1 1 as the result of this program.

* * *

### 45)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int main() {
char ch[] = "%d";
ch[1] = 'a';
	printf(ch, 65);
	return 0;
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  A
2.  a 65
3.  A
4.  Sixty-five
5.  错误

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(45)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(45)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (c) A **Explanation:** The variable "ch' gets converted into %c from %d because it stores the character "a' from the initialization statement. And the printf function takes it as a string format and assumes 65 as an ASCII value. ASCII value of 65 is "A'; thus, the compiler prints the character "A' as the result of this program.

* * *

### 46)要在屏幕上打印' \n '，下列哪种打印说法是正确的？

1.  printf("\n ')
2.  printf("\n ')
3.  printf("\\n ')
4.  回显" \n "

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(46)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(46)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (c) printf("\\n") **Explanation:** You can print the special character '\n' with the help of double back-slashes in the print statement of the program.

* * *

### 47)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int main() {
char *ch;
ch = "%d";
ch++;
ch++;
	printf(ch - 2, 23);
	return 0;
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  编译时错误
2.  Twenty-three
3.  Twenty-one
4.  Twenty-five
5.  没有人

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(47)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(47)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (b) 23 **Explanation:** Here, "ch' is a pointer variable in this program. This pointer variable is pointed to the %d and then incremented two times. Since %d is not changed, so the printf function takes it in the integer format. In the printf statement, variable "ch' is again decremented by -2, so the same value is printed by the compiler. Thus the compiler prints 23 as the result of this program.

* * *

### 48)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int main() {
int n1, n2;
n1 = 065;
n2 = 27;
	printf("%d %d", n1, n2);
	return 0;
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  065 27
2.  65 27
3.  53 27
4.  53 33

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(48)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(48)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (c) 53 27 **Explanation:** The value of variable "n1' is an octal value. So the compiler automatically changes it into a decimal number at the time of printing. The compiler changes because the printf statement has identifier %d, which represents integer numbers in the program. The decimal of 065 is 53. The value of n2 will not change because the compiler takes normal values as a decimal number. Thus the compiler prints 53 27 as the result of this program.

* * *

### 49)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int main() {
char *ch;
ch = "John"
"Doe";
	printf("%s", ch);
	return 0;
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  句法误差
2.  无名氏
3.  无名氏
4.  约翰
5.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(49)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(49)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (b) John Doe **Explanation:** In the C language, a single statement is considered until the compiler didn't receive a semicolon. So variable 'ch' has a string value, i.e., John Doe. The compiler is considered as a new line when you use \n in the program. But there is no \n in the string declaration, so it comes in a single line in the output.

* * *

### 50)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int main() {
int n;
for(n = 1; n < 25; n += 3) {
	++n;
	n++;
	printf("%d", n);
	n++;
}
	return 0;
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  2 7 12 17 22
2.  3 8 13 18 23
3.  3 7 11 15 19 23
4.  3 9 15 21

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(50)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(50)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (d) 3 9 15 21 **Explanation:** It is a normal C program in which for loop and pre and post-increment operators are used. Here is this program, for loop will iterate till the value of n is less than 25. Thus the compiler prints 3 9 15 21 as the result of this program.

* * *

### 51)你可以用-？

1.  temp = a；a = b；b =温度；
2.  a = a+b；b = a-b；a = a-b；
3.  都是 a & b。
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(51)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(51)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (c) Both a & b. **Explanation:** There are two methods to swap the values of the variable in the C program. The first one is by using the 3<sup>rd</sup> variable, and the second one is without using the 3<sup>rd</sup> variable. Option (a) is with using the 3<sup>rd</sup> variable, i.e., temp. Option (b) is without using the 3<sup>rd</sup> variable. After the successful operation of any option between them, the value of the variable "a' and "b' will be swapped successfully.

* * *

### 52)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int main() {
char s1 [23], s2 [25];
s1 = "Lara";
s2 = "Croft";
	printf("%s", strcpy(s2, strcat(s1, s2)));
	return 0;
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  拉腊
2.  小田地
3.  萝拉·卡芙特
4.  克罗夫特·劳拉
5.  错误

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(52)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(52)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (c) Lara Croft **Explanation:** It is a program of string concatenation and copying a string. The "strcat' function is used for the concatenation of the string, and the "strcpy' function is used to copy the string. In the strcart function, the value of the variable s2 appends in variable s1. In the strcpy function, the resultant value of the strcat function is copied in variable s2. Thus the compiler prints the string "Lara Croft' as the result of this program.

* * *

### 53)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int main() {
char s1 [23], s2 [25];
s1 = "Lara";
s2 = "Lara";
if( s1 == s2)
	printf("Equal String.")
else
		printf("Unequal String.');
	return 0;
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  相等字符串
2.  不等字符串
3.  编译时错误
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(53)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(53)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (b) Unequal String **Explanation:** For comparison of the string variables, we have the strcmp() function available in the C language. strcmp() compares string value and produces the result in the Boolean format. But when we compare string variables with the help of a comparison operator, then it compares the address of those variables instead of comparing their values. The address of each variable is different; thus, the compiler prints the unequal string as the result of this program.

* * *

### 54)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
int main() {
float n;
n = 20.25639;
	printf("%2.1f", n);
	return 0;
}

```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  句法误差
2.  Twenty-five thousand six hundred and thirty-nine
3.  Two
4.  three

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(54)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(54)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (d) 20.3 **Explanation:** We have a float type variable, i.e., n, and its value is 20.25639 in this program. In the print statement, we have a precision specifier, i.e., .1f, which tells that the print statement prints only one digit after the decimal point. The first digit after the decimal is auto-incremented by +1 if the second digit after the decimal point is equal or greater than 5. Thus the compiler prints 20.3 as the result of this program.

* * *

### 55)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
#include #define cube(a) (a*a*a)
int main() {
int n1 = 4, n2 ;
n2 = cube(n1++);
	printf("%d %d", n1, n2);
	return 0;
} 
```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  5 5
2.  5 64
3.  4 64
4.  7 64
5.  错误

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(55)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(55)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (d) 5 64 **Explanation:** In this program, cube(a) is defined as a*a*a with the help of a pre-processor, which means the cube(a) will be replaced with a*a*a in this program. So the compiler replaces "a' with "n1'; thus, the statement becomes like this: n1++ * n1++ * n1++ in this way, the value of n1 is multiplied three times, and after multiplication, it is also incremented three times. Thus the value of n2 is: 4 * 4 * 4 = 64 And the incremented value of n1 is = 7 Thus the compiler prints 7 64 as the result of this program.

* * *

### 56)在 C 程序中，哪个数据类型变量使用%i:

1.  整数变量
2.  浮动变量
3.  字符串变量
4.  上述全部

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(56)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(56)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (a) integer variable **Explanation:** %i is also used for an integer variable. An integer variable has two identifiers, i.e., %d and %i in the C language; you can use any of them in the C program.

* * *

### 57)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
#include int main() {
char *ch ;
ch = "ABC";
while(*ch)
		printf("%c", *ch++);
	return 0;
} 
```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  ABC ABC ABC…继续
2.  ABC CDE BCD…继续
3.  一些地址将被打印，直到循环为真。
4.  编译时错误
5.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(57)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(57)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (a) ABC ABC ABC… continues **Explanation:** "ch' is a pointer variable in this program. Hence the print statement prints the value, i.e., "ABC,' then increment the address of the variable by +1 until the value of the variable "ch' does not become zero. Thus the compiler prints ABC till the loop is true as the result of this program.

* * *

### 58)一个程序包含以下代码:

```
#include int main() {
int n1 = 4, 5, 6 ;
	printf("%d", n1);
	return 0;
} 
```

Here, the result of the above program is ------?

1.  four
2.  five
3.  six
4.  没有人
5.  编译时错误

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(58)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(58)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (a) 4 **Explanation:** The associativity of the comma operator in left to right in the C language and the precedence assignment operator is higher than the comma operator. So the compiler will assume the declaration statement as follows: int (n1 = 4), 5, 6; Thus the value 4 is assigned to the variable n1, and the compiler prints 4 as the result of this program.

* * *

### 59)递归函数以何种方式执行？

1.  平行排列
2.  FIFO 顺序(先进先出)
3.  后进先出顺序
4.  随机位

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(59)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(59)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (c) LIFO order (Last In First Out) **Explanation:** In each function call, entry is created in the form of a stack, so they perform in LIFO (Last In First Out) manner.

* * *

### 60)c 程序中参数传递的默认机制是什么？

1.  按值调用
2.  引用调用
3.  通过值的结果调用。
4.  上述全部

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(60)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(60)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** (a) Call by value **Explanation:** By default, the compiler uses call by value mechanism in the C language.

* * *