# 计算机网络 MCQ(多项选择题)

> 原文：<https://www.tutorialandexample.com/computer-networks-mcq>

## MCQ 计算机网络公司

### 1)两台或多台计算机之间的数字数据传输称为？

1.  互联网
2.  网络
3.  以太网
4.  数据通信

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(1)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(1)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** d) Data communication **Explanation:** The transmission of digital data between two or more well-established computers or data networks allows the exchange of data between sender and receiver, known as data communication or telecommunication network. The best-known medium of data communication around the globe is INTERNET, and one can easily establish a working network by simply using an Ethernet cable medium or wireless communication medium.

* * *

### 2)当今知识渊博的计算机网络的最佳例子是？

1.  互联网
2.  局域网
3.  无线局域网（wireless fidelity 的缩写）
4.  微波

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(2)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(2)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) Internet **Explanation:** The best-known medium of data communication around the globe is INTERNET, and one can easily establish a working network by simply using an Ethernet cable medium or wireless communication medium Internet is the largest network ever existed on Earth. It is a network of multiple networks connected performing a similar task altogether. The internet allows its user to share an enormous amount of data or messages around the globe instantaneously. Internet uses a set of instructions and rules for better transfer of data, also known as **Protocols**, and one of the most used protocol is **TCP / IP ( transfer control protocol or internet protocol )**; it is also the most widely used protocols around the globe.

* * *

### 3)什么是海底通信电缆？

1.  以太网电缆
2.  无线媒体
3.  连接各大洲的电缆
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(3)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(3)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** c ) Cable to interconnect continents **Explanation:** Submarine communication cable is a set of very high-speed fiber optic cables laid under the sea to interconnect various continent

* * *

### 4)数据通信和计算机网络的应用有哪些？

I) The system must deliver data to the correct location and should only be received by the intended user/device II) Resource sharing through the means of printers and storage devices III) Interaction with other users using dynamic web pages and Information sharing by using Web or Internet IV) Video conferencing, emails, and instant messaging

1.  一，四
2.  一、二、三
3.  二、四
4.  二三四

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(4)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(4)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** d ) II, III, IV **Explanation:** Data communication and computer networks have made our lives simpler than the earlier time. As in earlier times, to send a simple message across the town, we had to use the post system and to wait for another week to get the reply. But after establishing the internet, we can simply send a message in seconds anywhere on the planet. Along with this, data communication also provides us many benefits in day to day life, and some of the application includes interacting other people from web pages, nowadays there is no such task that can't be accomplished through the website. From teaching to buying and selling, everything can be accomplished through dynamic web pages.

* * *

### 5)数据通信和计算机网络的分类。

1.  在地理跨度/互连性/管理/架构之间划分
2.  在局域网/城域网/广域网之间划分
3.  在以太网电缆/无线通信设备之间划分
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(5)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(5)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a) Divided amongst the Geographical span / Inter-connectivity / Administration / Architecture **Explanation:** Data communication or Computer networks are classified based on numerous factors, including:-

*   地理跨度——指网络在地理平面上的跨度或分布。它可以是两台设备、两栋建筑，甚至是两个大陆。
*   互连性——它表示设备之间的连接方式，即一台设备可以连接到几台设备，或者所有设备都可以互连。
*   管理-指的是网络的类型，无论是属于单个实体或公共元素的私有网络。
*   体系结构-体系结构定义了所需网络的结构。

* * *

### 6)什么是计算机网络中的地理跨度？

1.  特定网络覆盖的区域
2.  数据传输的连接速率
3.  设备如何连接以传输数据
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(6)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(6)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) Area covered under a certain network **Explanation:** Geographical span refers to the span or the spread of a network in the geographical plane. It can be two devices across a table connected through a wireless link, connecting all devices in a building, connecting all available devices within a country, a defined area, or even connecting continents all together in a network.

* * *

### 7)什么是计算机网络的互联性？

1.  将每台设备连接到特定网络的网络网格
2.  数据传输的连接速率
3.  设备如何连接以传输数据
4.  特定网络覆盖的区域

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(7)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(7)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) A network mesh to connect every single device to a particular network **Explanation:** Inter-connectivity denotes how devices are connected across networks, i.e., a single device can be connected to several devices, and all devices can be interconnected. A network mesh to connect every single device to a particular network. There are different types of structures called topologies to connect devices.

* * *

### 8)什么是锅？

1.  个人区域网络
2.  流行区域网络
3.  局部区域网络
4.  公共区域网络

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(8)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(8)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a) Personal area network **Explanation:** The smallest established personal network for personal use is called a personal area network, also known as PAN. It has a maximum range of approximately 10 meters. The devices include Bluetooth or infrared enabled devices. This technology is used in our daily lives like TV remotes, to connect wireless devices like keyboard mouse or wireless headphones.

* * *

### 9)什么是兰？

1.  局域网
2.  大型区域网络
3.  横向区域网络
4.  长区域网络

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(9)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(9)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) Local area network **Explanation:** LAN, also known as a local area network, usually used in offices, school, universities, or inside a building that are connected to a single administrative system. LAN is not much expensive to set up. It can be wired or wireless, depending upon the needs of the host. It works on a personal IP address and does not involve any heavy routing. LAN is widely used with Ethernet cables and uses star topology to interconnect devices

* * *

### 10)人是什么？

1.  城域网
2.  现代局域网
3.  最大区域网络
4.  人工局域网

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(10)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(10)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) Metropolitan area network **Explanation:** A Metropolitan area network, also called MAN, is a network used within a city. It consists of either fiber optic cable for high data transmission or radio waves that can easily penetrate through walls. The most commonly used MAN is a cable TV network.

* * *

### 11)什么是万？

1.  广域网路
2.  废物区域网络
3.  最差区域网络
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(11)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(11)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) Wide area network **Explanation:** A wide area network, also known as WAN, which is the widest form of network connections available, can even span its area across the country or even continents. Telecommunication is the best example of WAN, which provides connectivity across the country, and it is extremely expensive and requires very high-speed technologies.

* * *

### 12)在联网计算设备之间建立物理连接以访问数据通信的方式有哪些？

1.  以太网电缆媒体
2.  无线媒体
3.  以上两者
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(12)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(12)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** c ) both of the above. **Explanation:** The first step to establish data communication or a physical network is to lay the physical connection between all available computing devices or a server. To do so, we are provided with two options, wired medium and wireless medium, and the connection may vary from location to location or surrounding to the surrounding. Both media are considered best, but nowadays, there has been an increasing demand for wireless communication mediums due to the flexibility of use and data communication speed. But many services still use Ethernet cable.

* * *

### 13)什么是数据通信中的以太网？

1.  以太网是一种广泛使用的局域网技术，它使用带有 RJ - 45 连接器的 Cat - 5 同轴电缆，数据传输速度为 10 Mbps。
2.  快速以太网是旧式以太网服务的扩展，数据传输速度为 100 Mbps，使用光纤技术代替同轴电缆进行数据传输。
3.  以上两者
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(13)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(13)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** c ) Both of the above **Explanation:** Ethernet is a widely deployed LAN technology. Ethernet works on the specification **10 BASE - T**, where T denotes the thick Ethernet cable, 10 represents the transmitting speed of 10 Mbps, and BASE depicts baseband. Ethernet cable comprises of a Cat - 5 twisted pair of coaxial cable with a connector called **RJ - 45** (registered jack 45). The connector is a 48-bit mac address network interface card that helps to identify the devices and communicate with them. These coaxial cables and RJ - 45 are aligned in a star topology connected to a hub or switch, forming a star structure. Ethernet works as a shared media device. A shared media device has a high tendency to collide; therefore, to reduce data collision risk, ethernet uses **CSMA / CD** technology. Carrier Sense Multi-Access / Collision Detection technology on detecting a collision rolls all its host back and wait for a random period and then again retransmit the data preventing all the collisions.

* * *

### 14)数据通信中的快速以太网和千兆以太网是什么？

I) Ethernet is a widely deployed LAN technology.that uses Cat - 5 coaxial cable with an RJ - 45 connecters and consist of 10 Mbps speed for data transfer. II) An extension of old Ethernet services with a data transfer speed of 100 Mbps and instead of coaxial cable, it uses fiber optic technology for data transfer. III) A modified version of Ethernet with a data transfer speed of 1000 Mbps IV) Shared media in Ethernet create one single Broadcast domain and one single Collision domain

1.  。
2.  一，四
3.  一、二、三
4.  二、三
5.  一、二、三、四

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(14)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(14)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** c ) II, III **Explanation:** **FAST - ETHERNET:-** Basically a modified extension of the older Ethernet cable. This Ethernet can work on ( UTP ) **unshielded twisted pair**, fiber optic wire, and wireless connection. Fast -Ethernet works on the specification 100 BASE - T, where T denotes the thick Ethernet cable, 100 represents the transmitting speed of 100 Mbps, and BASE depicts baseband. Fast - Ethernet cable comprises of a Cat - 5 twisted pair of coaxial cable with a connector called as RJ - 45 registered jack 45\. Ethernet works as a shared media device. A shared media device has a high tendency to collide; therefore, to reduce data collision risk, Ethernet uses CSMA / CD technology. Carrier Sense Multi-Access / Collision Detection technology on detecting any collision, it rolls all its host back and waits for a random period, and then re-transmits the data preventing all the collisions. For fast emerging hardware and softwares, fast ethernet works on fiber optic medium and is defined as 100 BASE - FX, where FX denotes the Fast Ethernet over fiber optic cables, 100 represents the transmitting speed that is 100 Mbps, and BASE depicts baseband. **GIGA - ETHERNET:-** A more advanced and faster version of Ethernet cable with a specification of 1000 BASE - X, where X stands for -**CX, -SX, -LX**, or (non-standard) -ZX., 1000 represents the transmitting speed that is 1000 mbit/s, and BASE depicts baseband. In general terms, a wire capable of transmitting Ethernet frames at a rate of a gigabit per second or 1 billion bit per second, making a revolution in the data transmitting industry.

* * *

### 15)包含节点、集线器/交换机以及将数据从发送方传送到接收方的连接线的网络结构称为？

1.  计算机网络服务器
2.  数据通信
3.  互联网协议
4.  网络拓扑结构

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(15)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(15)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** D ) Network topology **Explanation:** A network topology is a structure in which networking devices such as nodes, hubs, switches, and connecting wires are arranged in such a manner that makes data communication easy. These structures may be in the form of physical topologies or logical topologies.

* * *

### 16)什么是网络？

1.  一群相互联系的人或事物
2.  两台或多台电脑连接在一起并共享信息
3.  以上两者
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(16)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(16)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** c ) both of the above **Explanation:** In simple terms, a network is a connection of two or more computers connected to each other through a connecting medium like a node, hub or switch. It is used for the transfer of data and information from the sender to the receiver.

* * *

### 17)网络的使用？

1.  复制、粘贴和打印
2.  电子媒体的交换
3.  传输和共享文件
4.  上述全部

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(17)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(17)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** d ) all of the above **Explanation:** The network has great importance in our day to day life such as copying, pasting, printing etc., and most importantly our cell phones that are inter connected to the network and are used to the exchange of electronic media, file transfer and many more tasks such as video call or instant messages.

* * *

### 18)网络拓扑的使用？

1.  网络拓扑是多台计算机以特定方式的互连，包括两台计算机之间使用数据电缆的连接。
2.  两台或多台计算机连接在一起，共享特定方向的信息。
3.  管理用户之间正确数据通信的一组规则和条例。
4.  消息或数据在发送方和接收方之间传输的物理路径。

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(18)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(18)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) a network topology is the interconnection of multiple computers in a specific way, which include a connection between two computers using data cables. **Explanation:** A network topology is an inter connection or an arrangement of multiple computers or network devices; these devices are connected in a very specific way to each other using connecting cables or wireless medium. These topologies can be physical topology or logical topology, depending upon the network.

* * *

### 19)什么是 PTP 协议？

1.  点对点协议
2.  平面到平面协议
3.  指向平面协议
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(19)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(19)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) Point to point protocol **Explanation:** PTP refers to the point to point protocol. In this type of network, there are exactly two hosts available, it can either be the computer, switches, or router connected to each other with a single wire. There is only one way of communication. attach image here - computer-network-mcq-q19

* * *

### 20)网络拓扑的类型？

I) Mesh topology II) Star topology III) Ring topology IV) bus topology

1.  一、二、三、四
2.  一、二、三
3.  注入静脉的
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(20)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(20)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) I, II, III, IV **Explanation:** A network topology is an inter connection or an arrangement of multiple computers or network devices; these devices are connected in a very specific way to each other using connecting cables or wireless medium. There are many types of topologies available, some of the most common are:

*   **网状拓扑——一种网的形式**
*   **星形拓扑——星形的一种形式**
*   **环形拓扑-像环一样相互连接**
*   **总线拓扑-单脊梁**

* * *

### 21)哪种说法适用于总线拓扑？

I) Every device is connected to a single cable and transmits data from one end to another end in a single direction. II) Only one backbone cable is required to connect all the nodes. III) The amount of installation is high, and the complete processing depends upon one another. IV) If the backbone cable stops working, the whole network will collapse.

1.  I, II, IV
2.  一、二、三
3.  注入静脉的
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(21)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(21)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** c) I, II, III **Explanation:** In this type of topology, all the devices are connected to a single cable, and the data is transferred from one end to another, and uses a line terminator. Once the shared data reaches its destination, the terminator removes the line's data for making space for more data. The major connecting cable is called the back bone cable, through which all smaller nodes or computers are connected. The major drawback to this type of shared communication channel is that if the main shared communication line stops working in any circumstances, it will automatically cause the entire network's failure. Bus topology uses CSMA / CD technology. attach image here - computer-network-mcq-q21

* * *

### 22)哪种说法适用于星型拓扑？

I) Every device is connected to a single hub through a cable, the hub is the central control node, and all other nodes are connected to one central node. II) N is the desired number of cable to interconnect each channel. III) The amount of installation is high, and the complete processing depends upon the central node. IV) If somehow hub or the central nodes fails, the entire topology will collapse, making it more difficult to work.

1.  一、二
2.  一、二、三、四
3.  注入静脉的
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(22)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(22)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** b ) I, II, III, IV **Explanation:** Star topology consists of a main or a central node; it can be a router hub or switch. All other devices are connected to this central node through cables forming a point - to - point connection between central nodes and all devices. The major drawback of using a star topology is that the central node is responsible for all the major work; therefore, if at any point the central node fails, the whole system will collapse. Relatively faster and reliable than the bust topology as there is no single / common data transfer channel. Data can be sent to the host at any time from any number of devices all together. attach image here - computer-network-mcq-q22

* * *

### 23)哪种说法适用于环形拓扑？

I) Every device is connected to a neighboring device, so forming a ring like structure one after another. II) N is the desired number of cable to interconnect each channel. III) The amount of installation is high, and the complete processing depends upon one another. IV) If any of the working nodes disconnects, the entire network topology will collapse.

1.  一、二
2.  以上都不是
3.  一、二、三、四
4.  注入静脉的

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(23)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(23)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** c ) I, II, III, IV **Explanation:** All the devices are connected to two neighbouring devices in a ring topology, forming a ring-like circular structure. If any node or connecting device fails, it will cost the entire system to fail in a ring-like structure. The data transfer speed is relatively slow compared to a star topology. Suppose a device wants to send a message to a device that is not adjacent to it. In that case, the data has to travel through all intermediate hosts sacrificing security and privacy, thus slowing the data communication rate. attach image here - computer-network-mcq-q23

* * *

### 24)哪种说法适用于网状拓扑？

I) Every device is connected to another device using a particular channel. II) N(n-1)/2 is the value to find the desired number of cable to interconnect each channel. III) Robust topology, fault can be detected very easily, provides utmost security and privacy. IV) High cable costing and installation is very difficult suitable for less number of devices, i.e., smaller network.

1.  一、二、三、四
2.  以上都不是
3.  一、二、三
4.  注入静脉的

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(24)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(24)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) I, II, III, IV **Explanation:** As the name suggests, Mesh topology consists of a multiple device communication networks, where each communicating device is connected to every other communicating device through point - to - point connection making it much more reliable, fast and secure. This type of network topology is least prone to failures because one device or host's failure won't crash the entire network. Mesh topology can be of two types:

*   **全网状** -每台主机通过点对点连接与另一台主机相连。并且可以通过 **n ( n -1 ) / 2 计算连接的导线数量。**
*   **部分网状** -与全网状不同，并非所有设备都相互连接。根据用户，这些是任意连接的。

attach image here - computer-network-mcq-q24

* * *

### 25)哪种说法适用于树形拓扑？

I) Also known as Hierarchical topology. II) The network is divided into multiple layers as we go down through the levels. III) Robust topology, fault can be detected very easily, provides utmost security and privacy. IV) The highest point is known as the core layer and is also the central point of the network layer.

1.  I, II, IV
2.  以上都不是
3.  一、二、三
4.  注入静脉的

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(25)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(25)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) I, II, IV **Explanation:** Tree topology is a form of hierarchical topology, and is a combination of both star and bus topologies. This network is divided into multiple layers as we go down the network. The entire network is divided into three levels. The lower level or the roots is called the access - Layer, where all the computers are connected. The middle layer works as a connecting layer linking the lower level to the upper level like the trunk of a tree, and this layer is called the distribution - Layer. Finally, the top most layer is also called the core - layer, which is the central or the main node through which all the sub nodes are connected. attach image here - computer-network-mcq-q25

* * *

### 26)哪项陈述适用于菊花链拓扑？

I) Every device is connected to a neighboring device, forming a linear structure one after another, and the endpoints remain unattached. II) N is the desired number of cable to interconnect each channel. III) The amount of installation is high, and the complete processing depends upon one another. IV) If any of the working nodes disconnects, the entire network topology will collapse.

1.  一、二
2.  以上都不是
3.  一、二、三、四
4.  注入静脉的

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(26)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(26)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** c ) I, II, III, IV **Explanation:** Daisy chain topology is almost similar to Ring topology as it also contains two neighboring hosts allocated adjacent to one node, except the starting and the ending nodes. Unlike ring topology, it doesn't form a complete ring. The outermost nodes are not further connected to any device. In this structure, if any node or connecting device fails, it will cost the entire system to fail. The data transfer speed is relatively slow compared to star topology and mesh topology. Suppose a device wants to send a message to a device that is not adjacent to it. In that case, the data has to travel through all intermediate hosts sacrificing security and privacy, thus slowing the data communication rate. attach image here - computer-network-mcq-q26

* * *

### 27)哪种说法适用于混合拓扑？

I) The collection of two or more topologies together is called a hybrid topology. It can be a collection of star, bus, mesh or ring topologies together. II) Only one backbone cable is required to connect all the nodes. III) Best reliable topology, but the installation charges are very high. IV) If the backbone cable stops working, the whole network will collapse.

1.  I, II, IV
2.  以上都不是
3.  一、三
4.  注入静脉的

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(27)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(27)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** c ) I, III **Explanation:** Hybrid topology, as the name suggests, is a combination of multiple topologies altogether. It can be a combination of a ring topology with star topology or bus topology, thus making it more flexible. This type of topology inherits all the merits and demerits of all the topologies. One of the best examples of hybrid topology is the internet only due to the fact that the internet is much more flexible than any other present network.

* * *

### 28)数据通信的特点

II) Delivery III) Accuracy IV) Timeliness V) Jitter

1.  一，四
2.  一、二、三
3.  二、四
4.  一、二、三、四

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(28)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(28)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** D ) I, II, III, IV **Explanation:** Data communication is the transmission of digital data between two or more computers or network devices. While transmitting data, the communication system's effectiveness majorly depends on these four fundamental characteristics, i.e., delivery, timeliness accuracy, and jitter. **Delivery -** While transmitting data, a good communication channel must be able to deliver the data to the correct location. It should only be read by the intended user / device, by maintaining privacy and security. **Accuracy -** the transferred data must not be fiddled or altered by any outside source keeping the contents intact **Timeliness -** the delivered data must reach the receiver on time. **Jitter -** jitter refers to the variation in the package arrival time or the uneven delay in delivery.

* * *

### 29)一个好的数据通信系统的特性是什么？

I) The system must deliver data to the correct location and should only be received by the intended user / device. II) The system must deliver the data accurately, i.e., the data should not be unaltered or filtered III) The system must deliver the data promptly. Late delivered data is useless. IV) Data should be sent and received in a proper manner.

1.  一，四
2.  一、二、三
3.  二、四
4.  一、二、三、四

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(29)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(29)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** d ) I, II, III, IV **Explanation:** Data communication is the transmission of digital data between two or more computers or network devices. While transmitting data, a good communication channel must be able to deliver the data to the correct location. It should only be read by the intended user / device, maintaining privacy and security. And the transferred data must not be fiddled or altered by any outside source keeping the contents intact, and the delivered data must reach the receiver on time.

* * *

### 30)陈述数据通信的一些主要组成部分。

1.  消息
2.  发送者/接收者
3.  传输和协议
4.  上述全部

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(30)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(30)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** d ) all of the above **Explanation:** Data communication channel comprised of five major components. Any data communication system is bound to have these five major components; sender, receiver, message, transmission medium and protocol. **Message -** it is the information that is to be carried around. **Sender -** device or user that sends the message. **Receiver -** device or user to whom the message is sent. **Transmission medium -** it is the physical path by which a message is shared between sender and receiver. **Protocol -** it is the set of rules and regulations established for the successful transfer of data between the two ends.

* * *

### 31)数据通信的主要组成部分之一，它允许数据并发送以供进一步处理。

1.  听筒
2.  发报机
3.  客户
4.  计算机网络服务器

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(31)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(31)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** b ) sender **Explanation:** One of the five major components of data communication, the sender, is a device or user that sends the message or data. The data can be in the form of text, numbers, picture, audio or video, and the sender can be a computer workstation, telephone handset video camera, or any device that send signal or data.

* * *

### 32)数据通信的主要组件之一，接收分配的数据并处理信息。

1.  听筒
2.  发报机
3.  客户
4.  计算机网络服务器

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(32)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(32)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) receiver **Explanation:** One of the five major components of data communication, the receiver is a device or user that receive the message or data, the data can be in the form of text, numbers, picture, audio or video. The receiver can be a computer workstation, telephone handset video camera or any device that can receive signal or data.

* * *

### 33)发送方和接收方之间传输消息或数据的物理路径。

1.  集线器/交换机
2.  传送介质
3.  客户
4.  计算机网络服务器

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(33)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(33)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** b ) transmission medium **Explanation:** The transmission medium is a physical path between sender and receiver through which a message or data travels, the message can be in the form of text, numbers, picture, audio or video, and the transmission medium can be coaxial cable, fiber optics or a wireless medium.

* * *

### 34)数据传输介质的类型。

I) Twisted wire II) Coaxial cable III) fiber optic cable IV) Radio waves

1.  一、二、三、四
2.  以上都不是
3.  一、二、三
4.  注入静脉的

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(34)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(34)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) I, II, III, IV **Explanation:** The transmission medium is a physical path between sender and receiver through which a message or data travels. The message can be in the form of text, numbers, pictures, audio or video, and the transmission medium can be coaxial cable, fiber optics, or wireless medium depending upon the user's needs. Nowadays, most provinces prefer wireless medium and fiber optics due to their easy connectivity and faster data transmission rate-making data communication much feasible. But there is still a great demand for coaxial cable in households. The internet router and television still use coaxial cables.

* * *

### 35)什么是协议？

1.  关于互联网的主题演讲和信息。
2.  管理用户之间正确数据通信的一组规则和条例。
3.  在用户之间发送和接收数据的方法。
4.  防止外包黑客的一套说明。

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(35)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(35)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** b ) set of rules and regulation that governs proper data communication amongst users. **Explanation:** The set of rules and regulations are mandatory for devices to communicate easily and successfull transfer data through two ends. The protocol consists of all sets of rules like how data is transferred and confirmed by the receiver, which commands are used to send and receive data, etc. These set of rules are somewhat similar to our judicial laws.

* * *

### 36)什么是 FTP？

1.  文件传送协议
2.  文件传输协议
3.  文件传输保护
4.  文件传输保护

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(36)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(36)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) file transfer protocol **Explanation:** The protocol consists of all the sets of rules like how data is transferred and confirmed by the receiver, and which commands are used to send and receive data. File transfer protocol or FTP, is a standard network protocol used for file transfer between a server and a client in a computer network. File transfer protocol uses authentication feature in the form of username and password, and for more security username and password are encrypted.

* * *

### 37)什么是网络电话？

1.  互联网语音保护
2.  协议视频
3.  互联网协议语音
4.  国际协议视频

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(37)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(37)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** c ) Voice over internet protocol **Explanation:** The protocol consists of all the sets of rules like how data is transferred and confirmed by the receiver, and which commands are used to send and receive data. VOIP or voice over internet protocol refers to the network service of phone or voice call over the internet. That means you can easily communicate through voice or voice message using the internet instead of a private network from a phone or telecommunication company. Some of the best examples used these days are WhatsApp call, skype, or zoom meetings, making voice communication over the internet more feasible.

* * *

### 38)单工通信系统？

I) Keyboard monitor II) radio III) television IV) cell phone

1.  一、二和三
2.  一和二
3.  上述全部
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(38)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(38)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) I, II and III **Explanation:** A Simplex communication system is Unidirectional, i.e., it is one-way street. Only one of the two devices on a link can transmit, and the other can only receive the directed signals. One of the best examples of the simplex communication system is keyboard and desktop, as the keyboard can only send messages and monitor can only access them and display, television and radios also works on simplex communication system.

* * *

### 39)数据传输是双向的，但一次只传输一个方向的通信？

1.  双工通信
2.  半双工通信
3.  单向通信
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(39)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(39)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** b ) half-duplex communication **Explanation:** In half-duplex communication system, both of the two stations can send and receive data, but not at the same time. At a single time, only one device can transmit the data, and another device can only receive the data but cannot send another data simultaneously. one of the best examples of half-duplex communication is Walkie talkie, and Morse code, where a single person can send the message at a time.

* * *

### 40)双向同时传输数据的通信？

1.  全双工通信
2.  半双工通信
3.  单向通信
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(40)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(40)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) full-duplex communication **Explanation:** In Full duplex communication system or the cordless duplex system, both stations can receive and transmit data simultaneously. These are like two way street with data flowing in both directions at the same time. The telephone network is one example of a full-duplex communication system.

* * *

### 41)什么是 HTTP

1.  超文本纹理保护
2.  超文本传输保护
3.  超文本传输协议
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(41)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(41)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** c ) hypertext transfer protocol **Explanation:** HTTP, or the hypertext transfer protocol, is the foundation or the core layer of data communication over the world wide web. This is an application layer that consists of hyperlinks and hypermedia. Hypertext documents contain hyperlinks to other stored resources at different locations and can be easily accessed using these hyperlinks by a simple click or a simple command. All the website URLs start from Http / HTTPS.

* * *

### 42)什么是 OSI？

1.  开放系统互联网
2.  开放系统互连
3.  操作系统内部通信
4.  操作系统接口

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(42)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(42)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** b ) open system interconnection **Explanation:** OSI stands for open system interconnection and is a seven-layer communication system established by ISO or the International standard organization. The layesrs are:

*   **应用层**:负责系统的用户界面。这一层包括直接与用户交互的工具和协议。
*   **表示层**:该层的作用是定义本地格式的数据应该如何呈现。
*   **会话层**:该层维护服务之间的时间和会话。例如，当我们进行一次身份验证时，会话层将开始工作并保存会话记录，并且不会在固定时间内再次要求进行另一次身份验证。
*   **传输层**:负责数据从一端到另一端的传递。
*   **网络层**:这一层包含发送者和接收者的地址或位置
*   **数据链路层**:这一层负责从线路上读取数据和向线路上写入数据。
*   **物理层**:线缆设备等所有物理层面都在这一层。

* * *

### 43)OSI 的硬件层

I. Network layer II. Datalink layer III. Physical Layer IV. Transporter layer

1.  一、二、三、四
2.  以上都不是
3.  一、三
4.  注入静脉的

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(43)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(43)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) I, II, III, IV **Explanation:** Hardware layer of open system interconnection consist of major layers that manure the working on the physical or ground level the layers that come under hardware layers are:

*   **传输层**:负责数据从一端到另一端的传递。
*   **网络层**:这一层包含发送者和接收者的地址或位置
*   **数据链路层**:这一层负责从线路上读取数据和向线路上写入数据。
*   **物理层**:电缆电线设备等所有物理层面都在这一层

* * *

### 44)OSI 的软件层？

I) application layer II) presentation layer III) Session layer IV) Transporter layer

1.  一、二、三
2.  以上都不是
3.  一、三
4.  注入静脉的

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(44)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(44)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) I, II, III **Explanation:** Software layer of open system interconnectio consist of major layers that manure the working on the technical level, the layers that come under software layers are:

*   **应用层**:负责系统的用户界面。这一层由直接与用户交互的工具和协议组成。
*   **表示层**:该层的作用是定义本地格式的数据应该如何呈现。
*   **会话层**:该层维护服务之间的时间和会话。例如，当我们进行一次身份验证时，会话层将开始工作并保存会话记录，并且不会在固定时间内再次要求进行另一次身份验证。

* * *

### 45)什么是 TCP / IP 模型？

1.  传输控制协议和互联网协议
2.  技术控制协议和互联网协议
3.  传输控制协议
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(45)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(45)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) Transmission control protocol and internet protocol **Explanation:** TCP / IP, also known as a transmission control protocol and internet protocol, is a structured internet suite consisting of four-layered models. Internet uses TCP / IP for communication. Transmission control protocol comprises of the following four layers:-

*   **应用层**:这一层包含一组用于接口级与网络交互的指令。例如，FTP、HTTP 等。
*   **传输层**:这一层负责发送方和接收方之间的数据传递，包含一组指令，这些指令包含关于主机之间数据流的信息。
*   **互联网层**:这一层包含发送和接收主机的位置或地址，这一层负责数据在互联网上的准确传输。
*   **链路层**:该层包含发送和接收数据的适当工作机制。

* * *

### 46)TCP/IP 模型和 OSI 模型的主要区别是什么？

1.  与 OSI 不同，TCP / IP 没有特殊的表示层
2.  TCP / IP 具有成本效益
3.  OSI 具有成本效益
4.  两者工作原理相似

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(46)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(46)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) Unlike OSI, TCP / IP does not have a special layer for presentation **Explanation:** Both OSI open system interconnection and TCP / IP transmission control protocol over internet protocol are almost the same in working. Still, the major difference is that TCP / IP does not contain any specific presentation layer for determining how data in the native format should be presented.

* * *

### 47)通过一台设备向另一台设备发送或接收数据的第一层

1.  mac 地址
2.  物理层
3.  IP 地址；网络地址
4.  上述全部

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(47)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(47)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** b ) Physical Layer **Explanation:** The first layer that is used to send or receive data through one device to other is the Physical Layer. Physical layer: all the physical aspects like cable wires devices are covered in this layer

* * *

### 48)什么是 Mac 地址？

1.  设备的物理地址，通过该地址可以识别您的设备
2.  设备的逻辑地址，通过它可以识别您的设备
3.  和都
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(48)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(48)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) The physical address of your device through which your device is identified **Explanation:** The second layer is used to hold the location or address of your device through which your device is identified Internet Layer: This layer contains the location or address of the sending and receiving host, and this layer is responsible for the accurate transfer of data across the internet

* * *

### 49)什么是 IP 地址？

1.  设备的物理地址，通过该地址可以识别您的设备
2.  设备的逻辑地址，通过它可以识别您的设备
3.  和都
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(49)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(49)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** b ) The logical address of your device through which your device is identified. **Explanation:** The device's logical address through which your device is identified, called as an IP address. Ip address is present in the 4th layer of tcp / ip model also known as transport layer.

* * *

### 50)TCP/IP 模型和 OSI 模型如何相似？

I. In both models, data is divided into packets and each packet may take the individual route from the source to the destination. II. protocols are defined in a layer-wise manner. III. network layers and the transport layers are same IV. they both are protocols.

1.  一、二、三
2.  注入静脉的
3.  一、二、三、四
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(50)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(50)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) I, II, III **Explanation:** Both TCP/IP and OSI models are based upon layered architecture. Their protocols are defined in a layered manner, and the data id divided into packets and travels in form of packets to their desired destination. The network layers and the transport layers are the same in both the models. The physical layer and the data link layer of the OSI model is similar to the data link layer of the TCP/IP model. And the session layer, the presentation layer and the application layer of the OSI model combined to do the tast accomplished by the application layer of the TCP/IP model.

* * *

### 51)PPP 代表什么？

1.  保护对等协议
2.  对等协议
3.  点对点协议
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(51)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(51)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** b ) peer to peer protocol **Explanation:** PPP stands for peer to peer protocol. As the name suggests, peers refer to a particular computer or node connected to another peer. And files are shared directly amongst these two peers or nodes without and the central server or core node. Each time the process occurs, the sending computer becomes the server, and the receiver becomes the client.

* * *

### 52)TCP/IP 模型包含几层？

1.  7 层模型，如 OSI
2.  4 层易访问模型
3.  单层网络模型
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(52)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(52)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** b ) 4 layers easily accessible model **Explanation:** TCP is also known as the **transmission control protocol**. It is a structured internet suite that consists of a four-layered model. Internet uses TCP for communication. Transmission control protocol comprises of the following four layers:-

*   应用层(Application Layer):这一层包含一组在用户可以与网络交互的接口层使用的指令。例如，FTP、HTTP 等。
*   **传输层**:这一层负责发送方和接收方之间的数据传递，包含一组指令，这些指令包含关于主机之间数据流的信息。
*   **互联网层**:这一层包含发送和接收主机的位置或地址，这一层负责数据在互联网上的准确传输
*   **链路层**:该层包含发送和接收数据的适当工作机制。

* * *

### 53)为什么认为 TCP / IP 模型优于 OSI 模型？

I) Consist of 4 layer model II) Designed and developed by the department of defense DOD in 1960 III) In existence since the time of ARPANET IV) Internet layer is equivalent to the network layer in the OSI model

1.  一、二、三、四
2.  以上都不是
3.  一、三
4.  注入静脉的

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(53)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(53)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) I, II, III, IV **Explanation:** TCP, also known as a transmission control protocol, is a structured internet suite consisting of four-layered models. Internet uses TCP for communication. It is a 4 layered communication model designed and developed by the department of defense DOD in 1960\. It was in existence since the starting of ARPANET ( Advanced Research Projects Agency Network ). It is somewhat equivalent to the OSI model. OSI model is a generic model that is based upon functionalities of each layer. TCP/IP model is a protocol-oriented standard. The OSI has seven layers while the TCP/IP has four layers. TCP/IP provides better functioning with lower complexity.

* * *

### 54)为什么 TCP / IP 模型是世界上最常用的网络模型？

I) Set of protocols that allows communication between multiple devices II) Designed and developed by the department of defense DOD in 1960 III) Robust to failures and flexible to diverse networks IV) Most widely used network and become standard networking option for Unix based interoperating computers

1.  一、二、三、四
2.  以上都不是
3.  一、三
4.  注入静脉的

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(54)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(54)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) I, II, III, IV **Explanation:** TCP also is known as the transmission control protocol. It is a structured internet suite that consists of a four-layered model. Internet uses TCP for communication. It is a 4 layered communication model designed and developed by the department of defense DOD in 1960\. TCP contains an internet protocol that allows feasible communication between multiple devices. This is Robust to failures and flexible to diverse networks. It is one of the most widely used networks and become a standard networking option for Unix based computers.

* * *

### 55)在 TCP / IP 模型中，应用层的作用是什么？

1.  HTTP / HTTPS、SSH 和 NTP 的组合
2.  允许发送方通过介质轻松发送所需的数据
3.  和都
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(55)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(55)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** c ) both A and B **Explanation:** Application Layer: this layer contains a set of instructions used at the interface level where the user can interact with the network. For example, FTP, HTTP. It allows the sender to easily send required data through a medium.

* * *

### 56)传输层在 TCP / IP 模型中的作用是什么？

1.  TCP / IP、UDP 和 SCTP 的组合
2.  包含发送方和接收方的地址以及数据应该传输到的位置
3.  和都
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(56)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(56)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** c ) both A and B **Explanation:** Transport Layer: This layer is responsible for data delivery between the sender and the receiver and contains instructions containing information regarding the data flow between hosts. It is a combination of TCP / IP, UDP, SCTP.

* * *

### 57)网络层在 TCP / IP 模型中的作用。

1.  包含发送方和接收方的地址以及数据应该传输到的位置
2.  允许发送方通过介质轻松发送所需的数据
3.  包含所有重要的指导原则，如主机地址，以便正确传输数据。
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(57)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(57)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** c ) Contains all the important guidelines for the proper transportation of data. **Explanation:** The network layer contains the location or address of the sending and receiving host, and this layer holds all the information regarding the accurate transfer of data across the internet. The layer roughly corresponds to the OSI network layer, and is responsible for routing messages between different local networks.

* * *

### 58)在 TCP / IP 模型中，数据链路层的作用是什么？

1.  包含发送方和接收方的地址以及数据应该传输到的位置
2.  允许发送方通过介质轻松发送所需的数据
3.  包含正确传输数据的所有重要准则
4.  主要作用是从发送方接收数据，并最终通过介质将数据传送到正确的地址

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(58)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(58)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** d ) The main role is to receive the data from the sender and finally deliver it to the right address through a medium.

*   数据链路层:这一层包含发送和接收数据的适当工作机制。
*   数据链路层负责收集以数据包形式传输的信息，并确保数据包成功地从一端传输到另一端。并对数据传输过程中出现的错误提出了解决方法。

* * *

### 拥有一个计算机网络有什么重要性/为什么重要？

I) Earlier people use to send and receive information by hand or by the help of postal service which is much slow and very much unreliable, and in order to speed up the process, computer networks are established. II) Computer networking enables a much faster and more efficient mode of communication compared to earlier postal service. This includes email, telephonic communication, video conferencing etc III) Establishing a good and successful computer network leads to cost-saving and time consumption IV) People got bored with previous methods of communication and were looking for something new and interesting to spend time.

1.  上述全部
2.  以上都不是
3.  一、二、三
4.  注入静脉的

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(59)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(59)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** c ) I, II, III **Explanation:** Earlier people use to send and receive information by hand or with postal service, which is much slow and unreliable. To speed up the process, the computer network are established. Computer networking enables a much faster and more efficient mode of communication compared to earlier postal service. This includes email, telephonic communication, video conferencing etc Establishing a good and successful computer network leads to cost-saving and time consumption.

* * *

### 一个好的、可靠的计算机网络的特征是什么？

I) A good and established computer network consists of standard policies and procedures to regulate the easy and structured flow of data throughout the network. II) Computer networking enables a much faster and more efficient mode of communication compared to earlier postal service. This includes email, telephonic communication, video conferencing etc. III) Establishing a good and successful computer network leads to cost-saving and time consumption. IV) A good computer network provides backup and recovery support for data, i.e., redundancy along with security options to prevent crackers and unwanted malware.

1.  上述全部
2.  以上都不是
3.  一、二、三
4.  注入静脉的

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(60)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(60)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) all of the above **Explanation:** All the given options are the characterstics of good and reliable Computer network.

* * *

### 61)什么是网络拓扑？

1.  一个良好的、成熟的计算机网络由标准的策略和程序组成，用来管理整个网络中简单的、结构化的数据流，这种网络被称为网络拓扑。
2.  HTTP / HTTPS、SSH、NTP 的组合称为网络拓扑
3.  在处理时部署的运行时代码称为网络拓扑。
4.  网络拓扑定义了网络的结构和属性，有物理拓扑和逻辑拓扑两种类型

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(61)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(61)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** d ) Network topologies define the structure and properties of a network and are of two types physical and logical topologies **Explanation:** A network topology is an inter connection or an arrangement of multiple computers or network devices; these devices are connected in a very specific way to each other using connecting cables or wireless mediums. These topologies can be physical topology or logical topology, depending upon the network. PHYSICAL - Physical design of a network, including the network devices used, location to establish, and cables used. mainly the structure and blueprint of the network that will be enabled LOGICAL - How the data moves throughout the network. this consist of CSMA / CA, CSMA / CD, Ethernet is called logical network topology.

* * *

### 62)什么是物理网络拓扑？

1.  手动设置网络的电缆和层称为物理网络拓扑。
2.  网络的物理设计，包括使用的网络设备、建立的位置和使用的电缆，主要是要启用的网络的结构和蓝图
3.  在处理时部署的运行时代码称为物理网络拓扑。
4.  数据如何在网络中移动。这包括 CSMA /加拿大、CSMA / CD，

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(62)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(62)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** b ) The physical design of a network, including the network devices, location to establish, and cables used, mainly the structure and blueprint of the network that will be enabled. **Explanation:** A network topology is an inter connection or an arrangement of multiple computers or network devices; these devices are connected in a very specific way to each other using connecting cables or wireless medium. These topologies can be physical topology or logical topology, depending upon the network. The physical design of a network, including the network devices used, location to establish, and cables used, mainly the structure and blueprint of the network that will be enabled is called the physical topology.

* * *

### 63)什么是逻辑网络拓扑？

1.  手动设置网络的电缆和层称为逻辑网络拓扑。
2.  网络设计，包括网络设备、架设位置和使用的电缆，主要是要启用的网络的结构和蓝图。
3.  在处理时部署的运行时代码称为逻辑网络拓扑
4.  数据如何在网络中移动，网络由 CSMA / CA、CSMA / CD、以太网组成，称为逻辑网络拓扑。

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(63)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(63)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** d ) How the data moves throughout the network, and it consist of CSMA / CA, CSMA / CD, Ethernet, is called logical network topology. **Explanation:** A network topology is an inter connection or an arrangement of multiple computers or network devices; these devices are connected in a very specific way to each other using connecting cables or wireless medium. These topologies can be physical topology or logical topology, depending upon the network. It explaisn how the data moves throughout the network, and consist of CSMA / CA, CSMA / CD, Ethernet, is called logical network topology.

* * *

### 64)什么是网络接口卡(NIC)？

I) It provides all the physical and electrical, light or radio frequency connection to the network media. II) A connecting device that makes Computer networking enables a much faster and more efficient communication mode than earlier postal service. This includes email, telephonic communication, video conferencing, etc. III) The network adapter installed on your network device is called a network interface card. IV) It can either work as an expansion card, USB device, or built, and attached directly to the motherboard.

1.  上述全部
2.  以上都不是
3.  一、三、四
4.  注入静脉的

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(64)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(64)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** c) I, III, IV **Explanation:** A network interface card or NIC is the network adapter installed on your network device. It provides all the physical and electrical, light or radio frequency connection to the network media. It can either work as an expansion card, USB device, or built and attached directly to the motherboard.

* * *

### 65)什么是基本路由器？

I) A device used to connect different networks altogether and Routes traffic between different networks using IP address. II) A connecting device that makes Computer networking enables a much faster and more efficient communication mode than earlier postal service. This includes email, telephonic communication, video conferencing etc. III) It uses intelligent decisions, also known as routing protocols, in order to find the best way to get a packet of information from one network to another. IV) It can either work as an expansion card, USB device or built and attached directly to the motherboard.

1.  上述全部
2.  以上都不是
3.  一、三
4.  注入静脉的

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(65)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(65)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** c) I, III **Explanation:** A device used to connect different networks altogether and Routes traffic between different networks using the IP address. It uses intelligent Decisions, also known as routing protocols, in order to find the best way to get a packet of information from one network to another. It can use either coaxial cables, fiber optic cable or wireless transmission for data transfer.

* * *

### 66)为什么计算机网络安全很重要？

I. To reduce the chances of foreign contamination or any type of alteration in files while sending and receiving the data through an unsecured channel or a public channel. II. Having a computer network security prevent the unethical source from accessing private data such as location, account details, any monitory detail, residential address or any information regarding near and dear ones making it inaccessible for crackers to access them and harm them. III. To save important secrets and data from crackers or unethical hackers from interrupting and manipulating data or deploying malware that may corrupt the file. IV. To save important data from viruses like TROJAN HORSE, malware, or any other thing causing file discrepancies.

1.  上述全部
2.  以上都不是
3.  一、三
4.  注入静脉的

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(66)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(66)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) all of the above **Explanation:** When the internet established, it was accessible to only the military and university for research or development purposes. Later, when the internet was made available for the common public, and all public networks were merged, then the data also started to travel through a public channel, making it even more prone to cyber attackers. People even share high sensitive documents such as bank credentials, usernames and passwords, personal documents, online shopping details, or confidential documents over the internet, attracting crackers. In order to prevent any consequences, cyber network security is very important. It helps to reduce the chances of foreign contamination or any type of alteration in files while sending and receiving the data through an unsecured channel or a public channel and to save important data from viruses like TROJAN HORSE, malware or any other thing causing file discrepancies. And to save important secrets and data from crackers or unethical hackers from interrupting and manipulating data or deploying malware that may corrupt the file.

* * *

### 67)安全威胁的类型？

I. Interruption II. Privacy breach III. Integrity IV. Authenticity

1.  上述全部
2.  以上都不是
3.  一、三
4.  注入静脉的

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(67)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(67)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) all of the above **Explanation:** All security breaches are done for a purpose, and are never accidental. Security threats can be divided into the following categories:-

*   **中断是指黑客或恶意软件攻击资源的中枢或中心的安全漏洞。例如，一个用户的网络服务器被黑客攻击，他将不能访问他的网络服务器。**
*   **隐私泄露-** 顾名思义，在这种类型的网络攻击中，黑客或恶意软件通过直接拦截用户发送或任何可信客户端接收的数据来访问用户的个人数据。
*   **完整性-** 在这种类型的数据泄露中，黑客或恶意软件不会损害用户的设备；相反，它们改变或更改正在发送的数据的内容。这些攻击者直接截取发送者发送的文件或数据，通过改变旧数据或创建新数据来操纵，然后将虚假文件发送给接收者。接收者接收文件，就好像它们是相同的一样。
*   **真实性-** 在这些类型的违规和网络故障中，攻击者要么伪装成真实的人，操纵资源或事件，试图通过模仿其他真实用户来联系他们。

* * *

### 68)什么是密码学？

1.  一种称为防火墙的墙式安全措施，可防止恶意软件和黑客进入系统。
2.  一种将纯文本数据加密成代码或密码的技术使得攻击者很难读取和修改数据。
3.  防病毒，防止和删除任何类型的有害文件和软件，可能会导致数据泄露。
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(68)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(68)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** b ) A technique to encrypt plain text data into codes or crypto makes it difficult for attackers to read and modify data. **Explanation:** Due to the increased use of the internet and easy data availability, it is easy for hackers and malware to easily breach low key security and affect important information and data. Due to this, there's been a major increase in the number of cybercrime. But in order to prevent these breaches, there are numerous ways we can prevent attackers from entering our secured parameters, but none of them are 100 % secure. Still, there's a technique to prevent such crimes, and it is called **CRYPTOGRAPHY**. **Cryptography is a technique to encrypt plain text data into codes or crypto to make it difficult for attackers to read and modify data.** Some of the majorly known crypto algorithms are **Secret Key** - As the name suggests, both the sender and receiver have one secret key or password for a particular file or documents. When sending data, the sender encrypts the data using the secret key as a password, and then it is sent to the client using a public network to the receiver. Once the receiver gets the files, he can decrypt the files using the secret key again. He can easily retrieve all the files and data, making it very difficult for the attacker to easily crack the security code. **Example - Archiving softwares like WIN RAR uses security key to secure important files at the time of sending.** **Message Digest** - It is one of the most secure data encryption methods and the most complex to crack. In this method, sender never sends the actual data of files; instead, they convert the data to complex hash values and send. After the receiver receives the files, he computes his hash value and compares them with the hash value of the files received and if both the values matches, only the files are accepted. Else they are rejected, making it even more difficult for attackers. **An example of Message Digest is MD5 hashing. It is mostly used in authentication where the user password is cross checked with the one saved on the server.** attach image here - computer-network-mcq-q68

* * *

### 69)什么是数字传输？

1.  一种称为防火墙的墙式安全措施，可防止恶意软件和黑客进入系统。
2.  接收到的数据总是以模拟或数字信号的形式存储。
3.  防病毒，防止和删除任何类型的有害文件和软件，可能会导致数据泄露。
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(69)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(69)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** b ) Received data is always stored in the form of signals, either analog or digital. **Explanation:** A file or data is always stored in the form of signals. They can either be digital signals or analog signals depending on the form of the signal received. But before transmitting any form of data, it is mandatory to convert it to a digital signal. It can be easily done by using line coding attach image here - computer-network-mcq-q69-1 **LINE CODING -** line coding is the process of converting digital data into digital signals. Initially, the data received is in the form of binary digits, i.e., it is stored and represented by a series of 1s and 0s. Line coding scheme is further divided into three methods. **Uni - polar encoding, polar - encoding and bi - polar encoding.** **Uni - polar encoding** ? this uses single level voltage to represent data, where 1 represents a high voltage level, and 0 represents no voltage or zero voltage transmitted attach image here - computer-network-mcq-q69-2 **Polar encoding** ? polar encoding uses two levels to denote voltage. 1 represents positive voltage, and 0 donates negative voltage. attach image here - computer-network-mcq-q69-3 **Bi - polar encoding** ? bi polar encoding consist of three levels; positive, negative, and zero, where zero is denoted by 0, and 1 represents altered positives and negatives attach image here - computer-network-mcq-q69-4

* * *

### 70)数据的无线传输模式？

I. Radio waves II. Infrared transmission III. Light transmission IV. Microwaves

1.  上述全部
2.  以上都不是
3.  一、三
4.  注入静脉的

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(70)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(70)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** a ) all of the above **Explanation:** A wireless transmission medium is a mode of data transmission channel that does not involve any physical link or connection between the client and the server. Here the surrounding air act as a medium of travel for the data signals spread across the room that later received by transmitting antenna. Some of the widely used modes of wireless transmission are:- **RADIO WAVES -** one of the most common mode for wireless data transmission because these waves are very easy to generate and can penetrate walls easily therefore used mostly in metropolitan cities. These waves can have an approximate wave length ranging from 1 mm - 100000km and a frequency of 3 HZ. Radio waves are mostly used in telecommunication and network connectivity. attach image here - computer-network-mcq-q70-1 **MICRO WAVES -** these waves can only travel in a straight line and have electro magnetic properties; therefore, sending and receiving antennas must be placed at the same height and be aligned properly according to the line of sight. These waves can have an approximate wave length ranging from 1 mm - 1 m and a frequency ranging from **300 MHz - 300 GHz.** They are mostly used in **sonars or weather forecast.** attach image here - computer-network-mcq-q70-2 **INFRARED TRANSMISSION -** these are mostly used in short-length communication in a straight line because of high frequency. They cannot penetrate through the wall and can only move in a straight line. These waves can have an approximate wave length ranging from 700 nm - 1 mm and a frequency ranging from 300GHz - 430 Thz **LIGHT TRANSMISSION -** as the name suggests, it uses medium of light or optical signals to transfer data. The device consists of a laser or device to emit light and a photo - detector. The laser or the light source works as the transmitter and the photo - detector as the receiver. Due to the property of light, it travels only in a straight line; therefore, the sending and receiving antenna's placement must be in the same plane, and must be on the line of sight.

* * *