# MCQ 灾害管理(多项选择题)

> 原文:[https://www.tutorialandexample.com/disaster-management-mcq](https://www.tutorialandexample.com/disaster-management-mcq)

## MCQ 灾害管理问答

### 1)国家灾害管理研究所于……成立

1.  2002 年 9 月 23 日
2.  2001 年 8 月 14 日
3.  2003 年十月十六日
4.  2004 年 8 月 14 日

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(1)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(1)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** D) August 14, 2004 **Explanation:** National Institute of Disaster Management was inaugurated on August 14, 2004, by the Home Minister of India. NIDM is an institute which provides training and development programs to handle and manage the natural and man-made disaster in India. It is carried out on a national and regional basis. It was passed under the Disaster Management Act 2005 by India's Government as a deemed university and institute of training and learning to tackle the disaster.

* * *

### 2)国家灾害管理研究所的总部位于印度的城市/邦？

1.  加尔各答
2.  新德里
3.  海得拉巴
4.  曼尼普尔邦

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(2)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(2)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** B) New Delhi **Explanation:** National Institute of Disaster Management is situated in New Delhi of India. NIDM is a short form of it, and it handles and manages the natural and human-made disasters in India. It is carried out on a national and regional basis.

* * *

### 3)当危险情况出现时？

1.  当有自然灾害的威胁时
2.  当灾难的后果有威胁时
3.  当灾难对财产和生命构成威胁时
4.  上述全部

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(3)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(3)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** B) When there is a threat to property and lives from calamities. **Explanation:** Hazard is called a situation where people threaten to lose their life and property by various means of reasons like natural calamities and human-made calamities. The hazardous situations can be like frustration, tension, illness inside a human, an accident at the workplace (injury, radiation effect, loss of body part). Loss of occupation( damage to crops, loss of job) and many more situations where humans threaten to lose their health and wealth.

* * *

### 4)以下哪一项不是自然灾害？

1.  火山爆发
2.  洪水
3.  爆裂
4.  海啸

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(4)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(4)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** Blow-out **Explanation:** Blow-out means to blow the hazardous situation or calamities. It means to defeat a life taking situation very easily. Blow- out term is used when people and government can tackle a hazardous situation or come over disaster without any living being. For example, Weather forecasters give warning of cyclones, tornadoes, heavy rainfall, change in weather etc., to blow-out the situation.

* * *

### 5)地震波引起的灾害命名为……

1.  二宫和也
2.  台风
3.  海啸
4.  飓风

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(5)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(5)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** C) Tsunami **Explanation:** Tsunami is caused by a seismic wave produced under the earth by an earthquake. The high potential wave produced due to landslide on the seafloor, breaking of rocks in the sea, and land slumping into the ocean triggers Tsunami's highest waves.

* * *

### 6)沿着地球表面的滚动效应会产生地震波吗？

1.  l 波
2.  p 波
3.  siwave
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(6)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(6)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** C) S wave **Explanation:** S wave, shear wave or secondary wave is one of the kinds of surface waves produced at the earthquake under the solid ground. These are the second waves to hit the seismograph (an instrument used to record the waves). It is called a transverse wave because its motion is perpendicular to the direction of wave propagation.

* * *

### 7)国际海啸信息中心位于哪里？

1.  火奴鲁鲁
2.  海得拉巴
3.  果阿
4.  PUDUCHERRY 的原称

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(7)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(7)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** A) Honolulu **Explanation:** International Tsunami Information center is located in Honolulu, USA. It was established in 1965 by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) of the UNESCO( United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization). Its major work is to handle and monitor international Tsunami activities in the Pacific and other oceans. To provide suggestions to improve the communication, data networks, tsunami forecasting methods and information dissemination.

* * *

### 8)国家灾害管理局隶属于哪个部？

1.  污染部
2.  环境部
3.  内政部
4.  外交部

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(8)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(8)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** C) Ministry of Home Affairs **Explanation:** Ministry of Home Affairs handles the agency of National Disaster Management authority because the first motive of NDM is to handle the natural and human-made disaster as this disaster may result in loss of life of living beings and damage to movable and immovable properties of humans which affect their life and occupation.

* * *

### 9)在以下哪个国家，飓风很常见？

1.  印度
2.  斯里兰卡
3.  澳大利亚
4.  美利坚合众国

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(9)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(9)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** D) USA **Explanation:** Hurricanes are very common in the USA(United States of America). When cyclones rotate anticlockwise in the northern hemisphere, they are called hurricanes or typhoons. Hurricanes are most common during the hurricane season of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans. Hurricane season starts from May 15 to November 30 in the Pacific Ocean and from June 1 to November 30 in the Atlantic Ocean. Some of the states most hit by hurricanes are Florida, Texas, Louisiana, North Carolina, South Carolina, Alabama etc.

* * *

### 10)热带气旋中哪个部分是平静的？

1.  眼睛
2.  肢
3.  边缘
4.  没有人

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(10)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(10)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** A) Eye **Explanation:** In the center of the cyclone, there is a calm area where there is no storm and no rain, only light winds, which is called the eye of cyclone. When cyclone develops by winds blowing around the center of low atmospheric pressure, they can be clockwise or anticlockwise. The center part is depicted as an eye.

* * *

### 11)海啸预警中心位于印度的什么地方？

1.  新德里
2.  海得拉巴
3.  古吉拉特邦
4.  加尔各答

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(11)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(11)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** B) Hyderabad **Explanation:** In India, the Tsunami Warning Center is situated in Hyderabad. It was established in 2007 by the Ministry of Earth Science, and it was called a Tsunami Early Warning System. ITEWS is operated by Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services(INCOIS) and developed to predict the extreme danger and damage in real-time due to Tsunami.

* * *

### 12)海啸词源于哪种语言的词。

1.  希腊单词
2.  印度单词
3.  法语单词
4.  日语单词

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(12)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(12)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** D) Japanese word **Explanation:** Tsunami word is derived from two Japanese words "tsu" means harbor, and "nami" means waves. Rather Tsunami is a Japanese word, but nowadays, it is used in English. Tsunami waves are different from tidal waves caused by gravitational forces of celestial bodies, the sun, the moon and the earth. Tsunami waves are the result of an earthquake or landslide under the sea and ocean.

* * *

### 13)哪个选项是内战的完美答案？

1.  卡吉尔战争
2.  第二次世界大战
3.  第一次世界大战
4.  叙利亚战争

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(13)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(13)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** D) Syrian war **Explanation:** A peaceful protest in Syria against the president of Syria has turned into a full-scale civil war. People stand against president Bashar-al- Assad, who took over after his father's death, Hafez, in 2000\. People were complaining about high unemployment, corruption and lack of political freedom. The protest movement converted into a militarized rebellion, and more than 500,000 people were killed and missing in that civil war.

* * *

### 14)找出下列野火危害的常见因素。

1.  火山爆发
2.  埃尔尼诺
3.  火山闪电和雷鸣
4.  上述全部

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(14)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(14)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** D) All of the above **Explanation:** Wildfire hazards are hazards that happen due to the dangerous wildfire in the forest( burning of shrubs, trees, leaf litter, grass, vegetarian etc. ). Volcanic eruption, El-Nino, Volcanic Lightning and thundering, the explosion of an ignition source, and excessive temperature are common factors of wildfire hazards.

* * *

### 15)在北美，丛林大火被称为

1.  灌木丛火灾
2.  野火
3.  火山爆发
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(15)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(15)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** B) Wild Fire **Explanation:** Wildfire is known as a bush fire in North America. The burning of bushes ignites the fire to a great scale, which damages the forest. This disaster is uncountable in terms of loss of nature and it can be described under natural and human-made disaster.

* * *

### 16)第二次世界大战中的两颗原子弹曾投在下列哪一颗上:-

1.  日本的广岛和长崎
2.  德国
3.  意大利
4.  大不列颠

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(16)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(16)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** A) Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan **Explanation:** Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan are two cities that suffered from atom bomb attacks in World War II. Bombarding was made by the United States on August 6 and 9, 1945, with two nuclear weapons named B-29, which killed around 226,000 people suddenly after the attack and few due to the radiation effect.

* * *

### 17)哪一年，美国世贸中心的双子塔遭到恐怖袭击

1.  One thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine
2.  Two thousand and eight
3.  Two thousand and one
4.  Two thousand and five

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(17)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(17)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** C) 2001 **Explanation:** Twin tower bombarding is also known as the 9/11, 2001 attack on World Trade Centre(WTC) in New York, United States. This terrorist attack was made by the Wahhabi Terrorist group Al- Qaeda against the United States. Hijackers crashed one of American Airlines Flight 11at 8: 46 am into the northern face of the World Trade Centre North tower and second United Airlines Flight 175 at 9:03 am into WTC's southern South Tower.

* * *

### 18)热带气旋的风在北半球吹向哪个方向。

1.  一直向前
2.  逆时针方向
3.  顺时针方向
4.  任何方向

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(18)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(18)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** B) Anti-clockwise direction **Explanation:** In the northern hemisphere, the wind of a tropical cyclone blows in an anticlockwise direction. The wind blows towards the low atmospheric pressure in a spiral formation and goes inward, which draw thunder clouds around the storm and create spiral rain bands and all it happens when the wind blows anticlockwise.

* * *

### 19)破坏所有皮肤层的深度烧伤被称为:-

1.  一度烧伤
2.  二度烧伤
3.  三度烧伤
4.  这些都没有

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(19)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(19)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** C) Third Degree Burn **Explanation:** When burn damage the layers of skin are called a third-degree burn. These deep layers of skin burn and damage fatty acids, muscles, tendons, and underlying bones. The destroyed part doesn't show any sensation due to nerve endings damage, and it appears white and charred. Third-degree burns can be depicted as full-thickness burns.

* * *

### 20)根据印度气象部门(IMD)的说法，风以何种速度吹动称一场风暴为‘超级气旋’？

1.  200 公里以上
2.  110 公里以上
3.  220 公里以上
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(20)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(20)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** C) Above 220 km. **Explanation:** According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), when the wind speed of a storm is above 220 km, it is considered a Super Cyclone. All over, standardize super cyclone wind speed above 260 km.

* * *

### 21)火山爆发期间的极端风险区是………。

1.  在高达 100 米的距离上
2.  距离 100-300 英里
3.  距离 300 英里- 3 公里
4.  这些都没有

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(21)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(21)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** At a distance up to 100 meters **Explanation:** During a volcanic eruption, lots of magma, ash, hot gases and other dangerous materials come out, which are harmful to humans around 100 meters of distance to the volcano. It leads merely up to death. So, the extreme risk zone during a volcanic eruption is at a distance of 100 meters.

* * *

### 22)火山泥流被称为？

1.  岩浆
2.  拉萨尔斯
3.  火山岩
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(22)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(22)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** Lahars **Explanation:** Lahars consist of fragments of rocks mixed with hot and cold water flows down the volcano. When intense rainfall occurs, the volcanic mud steeps down with a great force called Lahars, which bury the entire town and agricultural land. It is an Indonesian word that means mudflow ( the erosion of the volcano's sediment rock).

* * *

### 23)印度唯一的活火山是……..

1.  巴拉唐火山
2.  贫瘠岛火山
3.  埃特纳火山
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(23)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(23)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** B) Barren Island volcano **Explanation:** India's only active volcano situated in Andaman and Nicobar is Barren Island Volcano. It is 354 km high island comes under the arc of active volcanoes extended between Sumatra and Burma. This volcano depth is about 2250 m, and it had its last volcanic eruption on December 8, 2020.

* * *

### 24)印度易受洪水侵袭的总面积高达……..

1.  30%
2.  20%
3.  12%
4.  10%

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(24)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(24)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** C) 12% **Explanation:** India's flood prone area is up to 12% of the total land area, which is around 40 million hectares. India's major flood-prone areas are as follows:-

*   哈里亚纳邦
*   旁遮普地区
*   比哈尔
*   阿萨姆
*   曼尼普尔邦
*   特里普拉邦
*   奥里萨邦
*   恰尔康得
*   西孟加拉邦

* * *

### 25)印度的气旋易发区总面积为……。

1.  15%
2.  10%
3.  8%
4.  20%

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(25)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(25)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** C) 8% **Explanation:** India's total cycle prone area is 8 percent of the total land area. India's land or areas affected by cyclone are the eastern coast(the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea) and western coast (Gujarat and Maharashtra Coast). 80% of total cyclones are generated on the eastern coast of the Indian ocean. Two main seasons of a tropical cyclone are from May to June and mid of September to Mid December.

* * *

### 26)寨卡病毒通过以下哪种途径传播

1.  猪
2.  飞
3.  蚊子
4.  鼠

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(26)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(26)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** C) Mosquito **Explanation:** Zika virus was firstly reported in Southeast Asia, the Pacific Islands and tropical Africa. It is transmitted through an infected mosquito named Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus. These mosquitoes also spread chikungunya and dengue, and they can bite during day and night.

* * *

### 27)以下哪些危险和灾难属于此类？

1.  文化和社会
2.  自然的和人为的
3.  化学和物理
4.  人类和物理

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(27)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(27)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** B) Natural and Man-made **Explanation:** Hazards and Disasters are classified as Natural and Man-made. Natural hazards and disasters occur due to natural phenomena like earthquakes, landslides, cyclones, Tsunami and volcanic activities, Climatological( wildfires, extreme temperature, drought), Hydrological( avalanches and floods) etc. Man-made hazards and disasters occur due to human negligence like industrial pollution, factory explosions, chemical spills, dam failures, ionizing radiation, and toxic waste. Most dreadful man-made disaster are:-

1.  博帕尔毒气泄漏悲剧
2.  北太平洋垃圾带
3.  吉林化工爆炸
4.  海湾战争泄漏
5.  田纳西煤灰泄漏事件

* * *

### 28)选择 ISDR 的正确完整形式？

1.  国际可持续发展报告
2.  国际减灾战略
3.  国际重大灾害资源
4.  发展娱乐的政府间战略

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(28)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(28)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** B) International Strategy for Disaster Reduction **Explanation:** Full form of ISDR is the International Strategy for Disaster Reduction. ISDR is a global framework established within the United Nations in 1999 under the IDNDR Programme Forum held in July 1999 to reduce the disaster risk. It is implemented to take preventive measures to reduce the risk of disaster and hazards. It contains vision, goals, and objectives to reduce the risk percentage of loss of life and properties due to disasters and hazards.

* * *

### 29)太阳、月亮和地球之间的引力相互作用产生了哪种波？

1.  海啸
2.  浪潮
3.  两者
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(29)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(29)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** B) Tidal waves **Explanation:** Tidal waves are the result of gravitational pull by the moon on earth. As we all know, the moon revolves around the earth, and it comes near to earth, which applies a gravitational pull due to which waves rise in the sea and ocean. The rising water level in the ocean called tides is caused by the gravitational interaction between the Sun, Moon and the Earth. Tidal waves are the vertical rise of water that hit the seashore periodically. When there is a full moon, tides are very high due to the extreme rise of ocean water level called spring tide, and when the ocean water level is low, it is called a neap tide.

* * *

### 30)国际减少自然灾害日在……举行。

1.  6 月 15 日
2.  3 月 5 日
3.  十月十三日
4.  9 月 13 日

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(30)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(30)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** C) October 13 **Explanation:** International Day of Natural Disaster Reduction is celebrated every year on October 13\. It was started in 1989, after a call by the United Nations General Assembly for a day to promote a global culture of risk-awareness and disaster reduction.

* * *

### 31)这些人中谁管理/领导国家危机管理委员会？

1.  内阁秘书
2.  内政部
3.  总理
4.  环境部

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(31)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(31)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** A) Cabinet Secretary **Explanation:** The Cabinet Secretary heads National Crisis Management Committee. Cabinet Secretary is the highest executive officer, and all the secretaries of the concerned department are members of the committee.

* * *

### 32)热像仪的用途是什么？

1.  读取并记录地壳中的瞬间。
2.  来记录地震的强度。
3.  拍摄火山散发的热量。
4.  上述全部

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(32)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(32)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** C) to take pictures of heat emitted by the volcano. **Explanation:** It is really difficult to take inside pictures of volcanoes, especially active volcanoes, so scientists use thermal imagers to take a picture inside volcanoes. Thermal imagers take pictures of heat emitted by the volcano, and magma's redness in the picture describes the intensity of magma in the volcano. Images clearly describe which lava flows are hotter, newer, cool down, getting hotter day by day, cooler, or cooled down permanently.

* * *

### 33)哪些仪器用于测量地面坡度和火山形状的微小变化？

1.  应变仪
2.  测量地面倾斜度之仪器
3.  和都
4.  这些都没有

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(33)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(33)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** C) Both A and B **Explanation:** Tiltmeter has been used as an observatory of active volcanoes since 1912\. A scientist first placed it in the United States for observing the Hawaiian Volcano. Tiltmeter is used to record the tilted crust/ surface of underground land due to magma accumulation beneath the ground. Tiltmeter is placed in shallow bare holes (1-6 meters or 5-20 feet deep ) for an accurate result. Strain meters are used to measure the strain( change in shape) of the crust. These are highly sensitive instruments to detect the load on earth crust created by the pressure of winds due to weather cycle. Strain meters are buried in bare holes about a hundred feet below the ground surface. When moving, magma or earthquake make ground to change the shape then the bare hole of strainmeter also changes its shape. It squeezes, stretches and shearing the instrument within, which is recorded by the scientist. It also helps in detecting the minute change in a layer of the earth's crust underground.

* * *

### 34) WMD 代表什么？

1.  大规模干扰武器
2.  大规模杀伤性武器
3.  小型毁灭性武器
4.  这些都没有

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(34)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(34)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** B) Weapon of Mass Destruction **Explanation:** WMD stands for Weapon of Mass destruction. WMD defines nuclear, biological, atomic, radiological, chemical, or any other weapon used to destroy natural and human-made structures like mountains, human beings, lakes, buildings, infrastructure etc. It's a weapon used in wars for huge destruction of land and mass by various methods. Hiroshima and Nagasaki are some of the best examples where a weapon of mass destruction was used. An anatomic bomb was fired on them, destroying the cities, and still, they have a notch of that destruction.

* * *

### 35)哪一年安得拉邦遭受最大的飓风袭击，导致 63，40000 人流离失所？

1.  One thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
2.  One thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
3.  One thousand nine hundred and ninety
4.  One thousand nine hundred and ninety-one

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(35)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(35)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** C) 1990 **Explanation:** In 1990, the Andhra Pradesh Cyclone or Machilipatnam was the worst disastrous cyclone that hit the coastal region of South India. It was originated in the Bay of Bengal 600 km to the southeast of Chennai. It was the first worst cyclone that hit A.P., and before that, no cyclone was named so, it was named as 1990 Andhra Pradesh cyclone. At that time, the cities of Andhra Pradesh witnessed heavy and the highest rainfall ever.

* * *

### 36)给业余无线电找个别称？

1.  袖珍收音机
2.  海啸电台
3.  Ham Radio
4.  灾难广播

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(36)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(36)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** C) Ham Radio **Explanation:** Ham Radio is another name of Amateur Radio. Ham is the nickname for Amateur Radio operators, heard in 1909\. Ham radio was used as an entertainment tool in starting to talk to people across town, but later it was used to communicate worldwide, even in space and without internet or cell phone. It can be used in social, educational, fun, and personal communication, depending on time. Ham radio station can be set up anywhere where it is required. (at home, club, workplace, open ground etc. )

* * *

### 37)博帕尔毒气惨案是哪一年发生的，是由于哪种气体？

1.  1986 年，异氰酸乙酯
2.  1984 年，异氰酸甲酯
3.  1984 年，异硫氰酸钾
4.  1987 年，异硫氰酸钠

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(37)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(37)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** B) In 1984, Methyl isocyanate **Explanation:** Bhopal Gas Tragedy was the first and worst industrial disaster in the world. On 3 rd December 1984, chemical MIC( methyl isocyanate) spilled out from pesticide factory named Union Carbide India's Ltd's ( UCIL) situated in Bhopal city which turned Bhopal city into a poisonous city over a night. Around 15,000 people died, and 600,000 workers effect due to methyl isocyanate. At that time, doctors were not aware of how to recover from this kind of disaster.

* * *

### 38)新型冠状病毒起源于哪个国家？

1.  印度
2.  中国
3.  日本
4.  孟加拉国

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(38)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(38)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** B) China **Explanation:** Novel Corona Virus was originated from Wuhan city of China. The first case of coronavirus infection was confirmed in the United States. Initially, it was detected in Wuhan's wholesale food market where Shopkeepers, stallholders, market employees, and regular visitors were infected. Later, on January 1 market was closed on the government ordered.

* * *

### 39)根据世卫组织的统计，受以下因素影响的国家和地区的数量

1.  Two hundred and fifty-five
2.  One hundred and ninety-five
3.  Two hundred and eighteen
4.  Two hundred and twenty

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(39)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(39)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** C) 218 **Explanation:** According to the WHO (World Health Organization), 218 countries and territories are affected by COVID-19 originated from Wuhan, China, in 2019\. it is a natural disaster that arises due to viruses found in bats(animal). People who ate an infected bat got infected with this virus, and it is named coronavirus. Till now, it is ruling the world.

* * *

### 40)根据世卫组织的说法，应该对冠状病毒采取哪种预防措施？

1.  社交距离
2.  用面罩盖住嘴和鼻子
3.  在短时间间隔内对手进行消毒
4.  上述全部

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(40)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(40)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** D) All of the above **Explanation:** WHO(World Health Organization) has regulated some precautions from novel coronavirus like wash hands or sanitize hands at a short interval of time, use of mask over mouth and nose, use of gloves, keep social distancing from people and take protective, measures recommended to stop this infectious virus.

* * *

### 41)哪种方法被广泛用于测量洪水可变性？

1.  自由流体指数
2.  FFMI
3.  船方不负担装货费用
4.  FondsMonétaireInternational 国际货币基金组织（=InternationalMonetaryFund）

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(41)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(41)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** FFMI **Explanation:** Full form of FFMI is Flash Flood Magnitude Index. It is an instrument used to measure flood variability. Flash flood refers to a short-term high-intensity rainstorm, which raises the water level in a few hours of rainfall. Most flash floods were noticed in hilly areas, mountains and coastal areas. Flash flood magnitude index collects data of rising in the amount of water level due to flood. It is a calculative method which helps in comparing the occurrence of flash flood during years.

* * *

### 42)哪种人类最受新冠肺炎的影响？

1.  儿童轻度感染。
2.  60 岁以上的老年人，患有既往疾病。
3.  人们的免疫力很低，非常低。
4.  以上皆是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(42)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(42)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** D) All the above **Explanation:** COVID-19 can occur in all age groups of people. According to AIMS, coronavirus highly affects people suffering from some medical conditions like diabetes, lung infection, cancer, blood pressure, heart disease, some infection and many more. It also affects the children having a mild infection as small children don't have high immunity. They are highly sensitive and catch contagious diseases easily. Adults can recover but having some medical issues made it difficult to survive in coronavirus.

* * *

### 43)冠状病毒属于哪个病毒家族？

1.  腺病毒科
2.  冠状病毒科
3.  丝状病毒科
4.  以上都不是

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(43)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(43)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** B) Coronaviride **Explanation:** Coronaviruses belong to the coronaviridae and nidovirus virus family, which result in many diseases named bovine coronavirus, canine coronavirus, human coronavirus, turkey coronavirus, feline enteric coronavirus, porcine epidemic diarrhea virus etc.

* * *

### 44)灾害管理下定义了多少种不同的活动？

1.  Four
2.  Seven
3.  Five
4.  Six

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(44)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(44)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** D) 6 **Explanation:** Six different activities come and are defined under disaster management.

1.  援助的公平性
2.  损失管理
3.  风险管理
4.  事件的控制
5.  资源管理和减少影响。
6.  应急训练。

* * *

### 45)灾难管理过程有几个阶段？

1.  Seven
2.  Four
3.  Eight
4.  Five

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(45)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(45)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** D) 5 **Explanation:** There are five stages in the process of disaster management includes planning (by applying which method disaster can be tackled), prevention (measures are taken to avoid disaster), preparedness (ready to tackle the disaster by various methods), response (if a disaster happens how it can be handled) and recovery (how the disaster is recovered as soon as possible). Natural disasters like cyclones, earthquakes, hurricanes, Tsunami, and various other natural disasters occur in various parts of the world, killing thousands of people and damage property. So to prevent this disaster, disaster management has been established with a process.

* * *

### 46)以下哪一项不是突发灾难的示例？

1.  地震
2.  干旱
3.  飓风
4.  海啸

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(46)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(46)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** B) Drought. **Explanation:** Rapid-onset disaster occurs rapidly and suddenly at a very fast rate. For example, earthquakes, cyclones, windstorms, landslides, avalanches, wildfires, volcanic eruptions and floods. Rapid onset disaster is a natural disaster that causes damage to life and property rapidly. Slow-onset disasters are the opposite of rapid-onset disasters. They include failure of crop due to drought, spreading of pests or disease. Slow onset disasters are the result of carelessness and slowly spoiling of natural fertilized lands.

* * *

### 47)沿海验潮仪放置在距离海岸……公里的地方，以探测海岸附近的海啸？

1.  One hundred
2.  Seventy-five
3.  Fifty
4.  Twenty-five

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(47)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(47)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** C) 50 km **Explanation:** Coastal tidal gauges are used to detect Tsunami nearer to the seashore. They are placed 50 km away from the seashore to measure the tides and calculate the size of the Tsunami. They provide information via submarine cables and give warning in time. Joseph Sexton invents coastal tides Gauges around 1851\. U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey developed a self-recording Tide Gauge.

* * *

### 48)现代地震学之父是……

1.  奥德姆和约翰·米尔恩
2.  查尔斯·里希特
3.  m·戴维斯
4.  这些都没有

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(48)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(48)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** A) R.D Oldham and John Milne **Explanation:** R.D Oldham and John Milne is called the father of modern seismology. The nickname of John Milne was 'Earthquake Milne' because he was the first who invented the horizontal pendulum seismograph. He established the world's first earthquake library in Tokyo with the hard work of 20 years. Richard Dixon Oldham was the third son of Thomas Oldham, Prof. of Geology at Trinity College. In his last days, he worked with John Milne on the Isle of White.

* * *

### 49)哪个选项被称为火环？

1.  环绕太平洋的区域被称为环太平洋带
2.  大西洋中部火山带环绕的区域
3.  被大陆中部火山带环绕的地区。
4.  这些都没有

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(49)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(49)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** A) Area encircling the pacific ocean named as Circum-Pacific Belt. **Explanation:** Circum- Pacific Belt is called as Ring of Fire. It is a belt of most active volcanoes on earth around the Pacific Ocean. It has the world's highest volcanoes concentration, more than 450, which produce 90% of the planet's frequent earthquakes. These active volcanoes spread along approximately 40,000 km ( 24,900 miles). Some countries around the ring of fire are Chile, Mexico, United States, Antarctica, Russia, Japan, Philippines.

* * *

### 50)在火山爆发的历史记录中，哪座火山以其最具破坏性的火山爆发而闻名？

1.  贫瘠的岛屿
2.  圣海伦斯山
3.  [地名]乞力马扎罗山(非洲最高山)
4.  喀拉喀托火山

<button class="showanswer" onclick="showhide(50)">Show Answer</button> <button class="workspace" onclick="showworkspace(50)">Workspace</button>**Answer:** D) Krakatoa **Explanation:** Krakatoa volcano is situated on Rakata Island in the Sunda Strait between Java and Sumatra, Indonesia. It was the biggest and highest volcano eruption when black ash rose 17 miles (27 km) above Krakatoa. The volcano became active on May 20, 1883, and the final eruption took place on August 27, 1883\. Later on, small eruptions happen up to February 1884.

* * *